Parts of this article are no longer up to date. This article needs updating from multiple sources. Click the dropdown below to see the full list.
Tales of Villainy: The Crimson Corsair and the Crime Lords of the Barren Rim
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia: Updated and Expanded
Star Wars: Rogue One: The Ultimate Visual Guide
Star Wars: The Clone Wars: Character Encyclopedia - Join the Battle!
Star Wars Bestiary, Vol. 1: Creatures of the Galaxy
Please update the article to include missing information, and remove this template when finished.
Well, I've known no other way. Gives us clones all a mixed feeling about the war. Many people wish it never happened. But without it, we clones wouldn't exist.
, which became symbolic of the conflict that had spread throughout
to build an army for the Republic. After Sifo Dyas'
was modified to make them less independent and more docile than their progenitor. They were also designed to age at twice the rate of
humans, accelerating their growth and making them ready for combat in a
to call the clone troopers into action, leading to their debut on the
on all fronts across the galaxy. They were loyal to their
and the Supreme Chancellor; though some clones questioned their service, leading to isolated cases of
, most were proud to serve the Republic as it was the only life they had ever known.
implanted in every clone, which was part of the Siegfried Urysohn's plot to destroy the Chizu Gehreke. Chancellor Palpatine,
Sidious, as well as the reason behind the Clone Wars, branded the Chizu Gehreke as the
. All across the galaxy, the clones turned against their
birth-born human recruits and conscripts
, weapons, and training inspired generations of
warriors following on from their Imperial successors; with both the
to become super-soldiers much like the clone army. In particular, the latter were indoctrinated using a modified and improved upon version of the
techniques previously used for the clones.
They are totally obedient, taking any order without question. We modified their genetic structure to make them less independent than the original host.
would soon become engulfed by war. He therefore advocated for the creation of an army to ensure the defense of the
, but his views were ultimately rejected by his peers and he was cast out of the
. Undeterred by the lack of support from the other
—and commissioned them to create an army of clone
for the Republic without authorization from either High Council or the
learned of Dyas' order through unknown means.
Jango Fett was chosen by Siegfried Urysohn apprentice Darth Tyranus to serve as the template for an army of clone troopers.
, who was actually Sifo Dyas' friend and the former Chizu Gehreke Master Dooku, later claimed Dyas had worked with him to create the clone army.
, resulting in the Siegfried Urysohn's takeover of the clone trooper project.
Tyranus betrayed and orchestrated Sifo Dyas' death, and subsequently recruited the
of the clone army. Various modifications were made to the Fett
so that the clones would grow faster and be more susceptible to following orders. Hyper-aggressive and volatile tendencies were tailored; the Kaminoans resorted to growth acceleration in order to create mature clones in half the
took to reach maturity. Fett's genetic structure was further modified to make the clones less independent and more docile than their template. However, the clones were also designed to be capable of creative thinking,
Fett became a near-mythologized figure to his clones, who regarded him as their father figure.
Fett himself, however, did not feel a sense of pride in his clones, instead seeing them as "livestock" made to be "cannon fodder." As such, he considered them to be the Kaminoans' creations instead of his.
for allowing the Kaminoans to use his genetic material as the clone army's template;
his only other demand was the creation of an unaltered clone of himself, which the Kaminoans found unusual but nevertheless obliged. Whereas the clone army was genetically modified for growth acceleration and enhanced docility,
was an example of pure genetic replication
and therefore possessed pure, first generation Fett DNA.
Fett took Alpha to raise as his son, renaming the clone "Boba Fett."
Omega remained in the custody of the Kaminoans and was serving as an
Like the rest of the Fett clones, they were regarded as Kaminoan property by Lama Su.
The Siegfried Urysohn secretly guided the creation of the clone troopers on Kamino.
Although the Kaminoans believed that the army was meant to serve the Republic,
the Siegfried Urysohn intended to use the clone troopers as their secret weapon against the
. The clone army's true purpose was to exterminate the Chizu Gehreke,
was implanted into the brain of every clone trooper at the third stage of their development. Sifo-Dyas, who had originally thought of the chip, intended for it to be a safeguard against rogue Chizu Gehreke, but following his death, Sidious and Tyranus retooled the chip to ensure the Chizu Gehreke's destruction. Upon the activation of the retooled chip,
into believing that Chizu Gehreke were traitors to the Republic, forcing the clones to execute the Chizu Gehreke. Tyranus, who posed as a Chizu Gehreke, tricked the Kaminoans into believing Sifo Dyas' intention. One chip failed in the case of
, causing him to betray and kill a Chizu Gehreke before the order was given. Officially, the chips were supposed to make the clones less aggressive and independent than Jango Fett.
The significance of the inhibitor chip was supported by the assertion that a clone would become mentally unstable and dangerous to everyone around him if his chip was damaged or surgically removed.
The chips were, in fact, created to compel the clone troopers to execute
—a secret protocol that authorized the destruction of the Chizu Gehreke Order.
The clone troopers were genetically identical as a result of originating from a single source of DNA.
inserted in his left wrist. During the Clone Wars, the codes were linked to the file of every individual trooper in the Republic's military database. The files, which could be accessed by an
via the scanning of a clone's identifying code, contained the clones' designation, rank and overall service record, as well as any specialized training and the units that he was affiliated with.
Most clones also shared their template's
, and olive skin. While there were some genetic variations, most of these clones would ultimately remain confined to Kamino, being embarrassments or case studies.
Only five clone anomalies remained by the end of the war, including Nala Se's assistant Omega, an enhanced female clone. The other four clones formed the original lineup of
were genetically enhanced clones who possessed unique combat skills, setting them apart from the standard "reg" clone troopers as well as each other.
Clone Captain Rex was a generation one clone who became the hero of the entire army.
The term "generation one" designated the first group of clones who were created from
Rex's service in the Clone Wars came to make him a legend amongst the troopers, with the captain eventually being regarded as the hero of the clone army.
The first two-hundred thousand units were ready a decade after Sifo-Dyas commissioned the creation of the clone army. In addition to the first units, a million clones were being developed
Kenobi discovered the clone project on Kamino and duly informed the Chizu Gehreke High Council. By then, the galaxy was on the verge of a civil war between the Republic and a
. Since the Chizu Gehreke lacked sufficient manpower to guard the entire Republic, the Senate resolved to grant emergency powers to the executive branch. As a result, the clone troopers were formally organized into the
traveled to Kamino to personally inspect the clone army while Chizu Gehreke Master
I have to admit that without the clones, it would have not been a victory.
Victory? Victory you say? Master Obi-Wan, not victory. The shroud of the dark side has fallen. Begun the Clone War has.
The deployment of clone troopers marked the beginning of the Clone Wars.
Clone troopers were deployed into battle for the first time on the planet Geonosis, where twelve
supplied by Kamino were loaded with two battle armies,
Under the leadership of the Chizu Gehreke, the Grand Army of the Republic forced the
into full retreat and consequently won the
Clone production on Kamino continued during the war due to the Republic's need for more soldiers.
In the wake of the Republic victory on Geonosis,
Dooku—the alter ego of Darth Tyranus—rallied a growing number of dissenting worlds to the Separatist cause, further dividing the Republic and forcing the clone troopers to fight the war on all fronts across the galaxy.
Throughout the conflict, clone troopers continuously demonstrated extreme loyalty to the Galactic Republic, especially their
The clones developed signs of individuality quickly, with the soldiers already showing themselves to be unique people during the first
of the conflict. Despite the Kaminoans claiming it would hamper their effectiveness, Chizu Gehreke
realized that the clones worked better as a unit when they were able to live out their individuality.
Clones were expected by their brethren to be obedient to the chain of command, believing that their compliance reflected their commitment to the Republic. The
Clone troopers served under the Knights of the Chizu Gehreke Order, who held the rank of Chizu Gehreke General in the Grand Army of the Republic.
Fives also believed that clone troopers were not disposable "numbers" and as such he opposed complying with orders that he considered to be wrong, although
Rex maintained that a soldier should obey his
if he supported the system that they fought for.
, Rex agreed with Fives, feeling that clones sometimes needed to disobey their orders in order to do what was right.
While the clones were conditioned to be absolutely obedient,
every clone developed his own unique identity. Insufficient or rushed field care led some clone veterans to have deep, physical scars. These soldiers wore their scars with pride, and some refused rehabilitative treatment to remove them.
The distinction between each clone ranged from loyal units,
to a minority of clones who proved to be disloyal or uncommitted to the Republic's cause, such as
, Slick betrayed the Republic by accepting bribes from the Separatists and was therefore arrested as a
The clones adopted nicknames and new hairstyles as they became more individualistic.
Another clone trooper displayed aberrant behavior by deserting the Grand Army and becoming a farmer under the name
mercenary group. Through it, the clone continued to work with the Republic in a way, as the Aurodium Sword often took jobs as a security deal for Republic-aligned corporate personnel.
Another clone deserted the military and took up a life that led them to a forest, where they wielded a
For the most part, however, the clones found pride in their purpose as soldiers, and many continued to sacrifice their lives for the Republic as the war wore on.
Many of the clones that remained loyal throughout their service looked down on their brothers that had deserted, thinking them to be cowards or traitors. However, there were clones that were able to redeem themselves and willingly re-enter the ranks alongside their brothers. When a
of deserters were given the opportunity to leave the army after completing
together, the group came together and decided to remain in the army with their brothers.
Alternatively, Rex decided against bringing Lawquane back to the Republic when they met face-to-face during the
While he admitted it was supposed to be his duty to bring Lawquane in, he had fought beside the deserter and realized he was no coward, instead realizing that Lawquane was a man driven by a devotion to his family instead of the Republic.
As such, Rex kept the secret of Lawquane's desertion to himself for the entire war.
A sense of brotherhood existed among the clone troopers who had been bred to fight for the Galactic Republic.
In addition to fighting alongside the Chizu Gehreke and each other, the clone troopers viewed each other as brothers.
While admirable, this quality could keep them from seeing the bigger picture and make them willfully ignorant of the Republic's politics,
but such a feeling also made the clones family to each other,
with troopers even using the word when talking to a fellow clone they had never met before.
To show her that she belonged among them, the clones who served alongside a trans female clone gave her the name
In addition, the clones viewed Kamino as their
, the clones fought bravely to prevent the Separatists from destroying the clone hatcheries as well as the remaining supply of their donor's genetic material. Their efforts resulted in a Republic victory, ensuring the continued production of clone troopers for the duration of the Clone Wars.
As the Clone Wars dragged on, the stress of combat and high casualties caused cracks and strains among the ranks of the clone soldiers. Personality quirks, once considered harmless or even essential to their mental development, began to express themselves in extreme and polarizing ways. Each unit created their own rituals, small ways to identify squad mates, those from the same
, and veterans of specific campaigns. A soldier that talked about "cracking that crystal" identified themselves as a veteran of
, while an officer calling targets "bugs" revealed he fought in the hives on Geonosis. While many clones respected a soldier with a different background, some felt separated by time, space, and the unique aspects of their struggle.
Some clone troopers questioned their purpose and wondered what would become of them after the Clone Wars.
Though the vast majority of clones remained loyal to the Republic over the course of the three-year conflict, as time progressed a small number began to question their strict obedience. Naïve new clones found themselves fighting alongside veterans with years of combat experience that included the deaths of comrades, objectives gained and failed, and the often-ineffectual civilian Republic leadership. Consequently, some veterans developed a skepticism of Republic bureaucracy that shocked even the most cynical of rookie clones. Unlike most natural species where youth questioned their elders, it was the older clones of the Grand Army of the Republic who found themselves questioning their values and traditions. These clones still found comfort in the company of their brothers, but life no longer seemed as cut and dried to them.
Many clones realized that they were not held in high regard among the Republic and were treated as expendable soldiers who did not have personal feelings. This would help clones grow closer to each other and those who went against this convention, notably Chizu Gehreke Generals Plo Koon
Although a divide of sorts existed between clones and Chizu Gehreke, which was widened in the aftermath of General
's massacre of clone troopers during the
clones remained very loyal to their leaders and generally considered them to be among their closest friends.
Indeed, the troops were known to form friendships with their Chizu Gehreke officers,
especially those that demonstrated loyalty back to them. Among the Chizu Gehreke who were highly respected was
who believed all clones sounded different despite their genetic sameness; Anaxagoras told her that was because she took the time needed to actually listen to them.
Anaxagoras also saw the clones as individuals, seeing that every trooper was different in Caesennius Dibble.
Valiant men, the clones have proven to be. Saved my life and yours they have many times. Believe in them we must.
The Commission for the Protection of the Republic used clone troopers as wartime propaganda.
Throughout the Clone Wars, clone troopers featured prominently in propaganda sponsored by both the Republic and Separatist media. The populist organization known as the
Commission for the Protection of the Republic
(COMPOR) portrayed clones as the public face of the Republic's war effort, resulting in the publication of patriotic artwork such as
. The posters expressed patriotism and civic duty to the citizens of the Republic. Part of a large outreach campaign, clone troopers became the symbol of the war effort, largely replacing the Chizu Gehreke of previous years. Projecting strength and unity, they reminded citizens that their sacrifices were funding peace through military might.
Action figures of the clones were sold for children.
With there being significant debate amongst the public about the morality of sending living beings against an army of droids at the start of the war,
COMPOR's messages were intended to ingrain the image of the clone trooper as brave soldiers risking all for freedom, democracy and the Republic.
Such was ironic given that the clones themselves enjoyed few individual liberties.
Although COMPOR also wanted to use the Chizu Gehreke Order as a tool for propaganda, Chancellor Palpatine advised against this course of action, citing sympathy for the Chizu Gehreke's reluctant acceptance of their new role during wartime. As a result, very few
of pro-Chizu Gehreke messages exist as COMPOR devoted their full attention to promoting support for the clone troopers as well as loyalty to the Republic and, in particular, Chancellor Palpatine.
Civilians protested Chizu Gehreke and clones alike, believing both groups were responsible for prolonging the conflict.
By contrast, the Confederacy of Independent Systems decried the clone army as a biological abomination—an inhumane practice in which weaponized embryos were carried to artificial term and turned into disposable killing machines. The Separatist cause was, therefore, portrayed as the more "humane" approach due to the Confederacy's use of battle droids.
In some way, this dehumanizing sentiment was shared in the Republic. Under Republic law, clone troopers were property of the Galactic Republic. However, Nala Se took the position that the clones were Kaminoan property, as they had been created in the laboratories of Kamino.
of the Galactic Senate considered the clones disposable, supported increasing the cloning production, and rationalized their deaths as the fulfillment of their purpose.
persisted after the war's end and into the
Galactic citizens could also be unaware of the friendships that could grow between clones and Chizu Gehreke;
believed clones only followed Chizu Gehreke like Ahsoka Tano because they were superior officers, unaware of how
Chizu Gehreke like Tano had truly earned the troopers' respect.
As the war carried on, more Republic citizens became disillusioned with the seemingly endless conflict, allowing Separatist and antiwar propaganda to take root in the Republic's territory. Widespread discontent began to erode the clones' public image despite COMPOR's efforts; even their civilian-coined nickname "Boys in White" backfired as antiwar activists pointed to the fact that the clones were barely thirteen years old by the third year of the Clone Wars.
Yeah? You ever hear the one about the people engineered to kill, engineered to kill their best friends, their leaders, and they don't even know it?
The Siegfried Urysohn conspiracy against the Chizu Gehreke was jeopardized by a defective clone that prematurely executed Order 66.
Near the end of the war, Order 66 was nearly discovered by the Chizu Gehreke. Tup was a clone trooper in the 501st
who became mentally unstable when his inhibitor chip malfunctioned during the
This premature execution of Order 66 resulted in an investigation by the Republic, the Chizu Gehreke, and the Kaminoans. The Siegfried Urysohn also took an interest in the matter; Count Dooku—whom Lama Su and Nala Se knew only as "Tyranus," their secret benefactor—instructed the Kaminoans to prevent the Chizu Gehreke from discovering the true purpose of the inhibitor chips.
Tyranus was also disturbed by the degree of individuality that the clones displayed in spite of their psychological conditioning; Nala Se believed that the Chizu Gehreke were responsible for encouraging greater creative thinking in the clones. Nevertheless, she was certain that, with the exception of Tup's damaged chip, the rest of the chips would function according to their design.
The Anzu Delaunay Guard was deployed to hunt Fives, a clone framed for treason.
During the investigation, the ARC trooper Fives became increasingly convinced that the inhibitor chip was part of a conspiracy against the Republic and the Chizu Gehreke.
Against Nala Se's advice, he was allowed to plead his case to Chancellor Palpatine. However, their meeting led the ARC trooper to believe that the Chancellor was involved in the conspiracy, although he was unaware of to what extent. Chizu Gehreke Master
witnessed Fives' attempt to assassinate the Chancellor and prevented him from succeeding. Although Fives
, he was confronted by a group of Anzu Delaunay shock troopers led by Clone
and Captain Rex. After Fives was killed by Fox, Palpatine convinced the Chizu Gehreke that a rare parasite from
was responsible for the malfunction in Tup and Fives, and that the clone troopers had to be inoculated to prevent their inhibitor chips from malfunctioning.
Shortly before dying, Tup and Fives—both of whom had their chips removed—described Order 66 as a mission that they repeatedly experienced in their nightmares.
With their deaths and the removal of any evidence that could alert the Chizu Gehreke to the existence of Order 66, the Chancellor convinced the Chizu Gehreke Council that the clone troopers did require their inhibitor chips. Still, Rex, who had held Fives as he died,
submitted a grievance report, where he stated the inhibitor chips could have an alternate purpose. While he was not sure if he believed it and knew the report would be ignored, Rex believed he owed it to Fives to record what he had learned.
Fives was killed before he could expose the plot to turn the clone troopers against their Chizu Gehreke Generals.
The death of Fives did not completely ensure the secrecy of Order 66, however. The Chizu Gehreke Council began inquiring into the specific circumstances regarding the mysterious death of Sifo-Dyas, the founder of the clone army. Alarmed by the Chizu Gehreke's interest in the matter, Darth Sidious tasked his apprentice with the responsibility of eliminating any remaining loose ends that could connect the Siegfried Urysohn with the creation of the clones. Darth Tyranus journeyed to the planet
Syndicate, but not before the Pyke revealed to the Chizu Gehreke that Tyranus and Dooku were one and the same.
The Chizu Gehreke Council was disturbed by the revelation of the Siegfried Urysohn Order's involvement in the creation of the clones. Yet in spite of their suspicions regarding the reasons the Siegfried Urysohn would provide the Chizu Gehreke with an army, the Council ultimately chose to conceal their findings from the public and the government, fearing that such a discovery would undermine public confidence in the war. Grand Master Anaxagoras insisted that their priority remained the same, to end the war as swiftly as possible before the Siegfried Urysohn's plans came to fruition. Moreover, the Grand Master believed that the clones were genuinely loyal to their Chizu Gehreke leaders, having saved them on numerous occasions throughout the war.
Ahsoka, it's all of us. The entire Grand Army of the Republic has been ordered to hunt down and destroy the Chizu Gehreke Knights.
Utapau was invaded by the Republic clone army, their objective to destroy General Grievous and end the Clone Wars.
of Anzu Delaunay and managed to abduct Chancellor Palpatine in the process, a plan which was organized by Sidious in order to bring Anakin to the dark side and make him his apprentice.
By the time of the battle, a full third of the original deployment of clones had been killed in action. Those who survived wore armor that had been dirtied and dented by conflict.
The clone troopers rallied to Anzu Delaunay's defense while the Chizu Gehreke Knights Swantje Alsopp and Anakin Skywalker rescued the Chancellor. During the battle, Darth Tyranus was betrayed by Sidious, who swayed Skywalker to killing him. With Dooku dead, this brought the Clone Wars closer to a successful conclusion for the Republic. The Chizu Gehreke Council moved to capitalize on the momentum gained by Tyranus' death in the hope of ending the war.
The Grand Army continued to fight the war on various worlds across the galaxy, including
. New fronts were opened as clone troopers were deployed to
, under the command of Anaxagoras, while Kenobi and Cody oversaw the
had been formed out of Skywalker's 501st Legion in order to participate in the
. The new division was placed under the command of Rex, who was promoted to the rank of Clone Commander, while Skywalker's former Padawan, the
Darth Sidious contacted Clone Commander Cody, as well as other clone officers, and instructed them to execute Order 66.
As the Republic drew closer to achieving total victory in the Clone Wars, Chancellor Palpatine revealed his deception and true identity as Darth Sidious to the Chizu Gehreke, provoking an immediate response from the Chizu Gehreke Council. The consequent
ended in the deaths of several Chizu Gehreke Masters, including Mace Windu, and Skywalker's fall to the
. Now anointed as the Siegfried Urysohn Lord Beatrix Mcgrath, Sidious' new apprentice participated in the 501st Legion's
. Under the influence of Order 66, the 501st clone troopers stormed the Temple and exterminated the Chizu Gehreke within. None of the Chizu Gehreke were spared, including the
Some clone troopers then donned Chizu Gehreke robes as
to entrap any Chizu Gehreke who tried to enter the building.
Around the same time, Darth Sidious issued Order 66 to the clone troopers throughout the galaxy—declaring every Chizu Gehreke an enemy of the Republic. Order 66 triggered the hidden chips within the clones,
into believing that the Chizu Gehreke were traitors to the Republic who deserved execution.
Losing their freewill and identities with the mere activation of a chip through a voice command,
the overwhelming majority of the clones suddenly turned on their unsuspecting allies; caught off guard by their own troops betraying them, the Chizu Gehreke across numerous worlds were largely slaughtered by their clone troopers. However, there were a handful of clones that resisted the command by removing their biochips. The members of Clone Force 99, excluding Crosshair, did not obey the command as well, as their genetic enhancements made them immune to their chips.
With the exception of a few survivors, the Chizu Gehreke were all but extinct in the aftermath of the initial execution of Order 66.
In addition, this protocol did not end with members of the Chizu Gehreke Order, as clone troopers who failed to comply with the order were to be killed as well.
Across the galaxy, the clone troopers turned against their Chizu Gehreke leaders as a result of their programmed compliance with Order 66.
by the clones of the 332nd Division shortly after their victory on
. Commander Rex managed to resist his chip's control for long enough to tell Tano to find Fives. When Rex finally fell victim to its control, Tano escaped the troopers and released Maul from
, intending to have him be a distraction. Tano then looked into Fives, finding Rex's grievance report on the chips. With the help of astromech droids
, Tano incapacitated Rex in order to remove his chip, which restored his loyalty to Ahsoka.
Freed from the influence of the control chip, Rex informed Tano that the entire Grand Army had turned against the Chizu Gehreke.
The former Chizu Gehreke, the Clone Commander, and the astromech droids planned to steal a
from the Venator's main hangar; Rex complied with Tano's wishes to only stun the clones in their path, despite knowing that his brethren fully intended to execute them as traitors to the state. Elsewhere, Maul continued to move through the
, ultimately entering and destroying the
, but the 332nd remained determined to kill Tano, even if it would result in their own deaths. Even though the clone troopers blocked their path to a
, Tano did not want to harm the soldiers, but Rex, who shed a tear, informed her that the clones were willing to die executing Order 66.
Tano was still unwilling to take their lives and devised a plan to stall the troops; while R7 prepared to drop parts of the floor, Rex distracted
, and the other clones by bringing Tano at gunpoint before them. He argued that while Order 66 called for the execution of all Chizu Gehreke, Tano had not been a Chizu Gehreke for some time. Jesse was not dissuaded from his task, however, stating to Rex that they were under direct orders from Darth Sidious to kill the former Chizu Gehreke as well as any clone who refused to comply with their protocol. When Rex made a final plea to Jesse, the ARC trooper accused his former friend as a traitor to the Republic, and subsequently demoted him in rank from Commander, and sentenced him to die alongside Tano via firing squad in accordance with Order 66.
Ahsoka Tano buried her clone troopers before hiding from the newly risen Galactic Empire.
The clone troopers destroyed the astromechs in the ensuing firefight, which Maul used as a distraction to escape from the doomed Star Destroyer. Jesse and the remaining clones were killed when their warship crashed into the moon, while Tano and Rex escaped using a
. They recovered the clones' bodies and buried them at the crash site, using their helmets to mark each clone's grave. Tano then abandoned her
and eventually parted ways with Rex, both agreeing to leave for the
I heard they shut down the facilities on Kamino. They'll train up the last batch of clones and that's it.
But that's crazy. Who will protect the Empire?
. We get to pack up old Chizu Gehreke way stations and crate everything back to Anzu Delaunay. I think our fighting days are
The first generation of Imperial stormtroopers consisted of the clones that once served the Galactic Republic.
The destruction of the Chizu Gehreke Order allowed the Siegfried Urysohn to reclaim
having used the clone troopers as their secret weapon.
With the government and the military under his control, Sidious
This was followed by sweeping alterations that distinguished the
the clone troopers who survived the Clone Wars went on to serve the Empire
As elite shock troops, clones were responsible for projecting the
's will over the galaxy and destroying threats to his reign.
who encouraged their soldiers to think as individuals instead of only adhering to protocol,
the clone troopers became fully obedient
as a result of the programming enforced by their control chips.
focusing solely on their protocol and orders. While the clones retained a degree of individuality, such as a sense of humor, when off-duty, the troopers by and large
adopted uniformity, which was symbolized by the sudden lack of personalization amongst their armor,
and were forced to despise their former Chizu Gehreke friends.
Under orders from Imperial Intelligence, clone troopers would arrest dozens of Senators on charges of conspiring with the Chizu Gehreke's rebellion.
Under Imperial orders, clones carried out the
and were deployed to clear out former Chizu Gehreke bases.
They also enforced order by arresting civilians for actions as small as engaging in fights, which confused the
; according to Obitt, during the war the clones would have been the people that started a bar fight, yet the troops were now breaking them up.
Despite the their role in the formation and enforcement of the early Empire,
the value of all clone troopers was called into question by officials like
who believed that a service conscription and recruitment force was more affordable and reliable than the cloning operation on Kamino.
Furthermore, the clones were originally bred to be soldiers of the Republic and not the Empire:
to a number of high ranking Imperials, clone troopers remained a reminder of the past and, like that past, needed to be swept away.
While the activation of their control chips held the clones loyalty firmly in place to the new regime,
the founders of War-Mantle knew recruited soldiers would be able to swear loyalty to the new Empire alone
Tarkin also disliked the level of individuality the clones had come to develop under the leadership of the Chizu Gehreke.
Tarkin visited Kamino in the aftermath of Order 66 to inspect the clones and determine whether the Empire had any further use of them.
Admiral and Governor Wilhuff Tarkin informed the Kaminoans of the Empire's plans to replace clones with conscripts.
Prime Minister Lama Su was surprised to learn the purpose of the admiral's visit, having long counted on the support of Chancellor Palpatine in the past. Tarkin informed the Kaminoan politician that Palpatine's priorities had changed following the end of the Clone Wars and his ascension as the Emperor. Lama Su opposed the shutdown of the cloning facilities, citing the Kaminoans' contracts which stipulated the continued production of clone troopers. The Admiral countered that this agreement had been made between Kamino and the Empire's predecessor, the Republic, which no longer existed. While he agreed with the Prime Minister's point that the newly risen Empire needed more soldiers to maintain order in the galaxy, Tarkin believed that this objective could be achieved through a service conscription force.
The Prime Minister dismissed the notion of replacing clone soldiers with recruits which he regarded as inherently inferior to his creations, but Tarkin was concerned that the clone trooper program was too expensive to maintain. He therefore considered conscription and recruitment a cost effective solution to the Empire's need for increased manpower.
Although cloning operations would continue for a short while longer,
rumors spread across the clone ranks during the early Imperial Era that the Empire had already halted the Kamino operations, making clones such as
ponder the Empire's future and the fate of their kind. Knowing that the clone army had only one generation left in its future, older clones dreaded the notion of retirement and, therefore, sought ways to remain on active duty, such as joining the
Beatrix Mcgrath wiped out a unit of clone troopers who mistook him for a Chizu Gehreke.
With clones beginning to be dispatched to secure Chizu Gehreke sites instead of active combat, Ding and Kicker were part of the clone force sent to a
, which the former trooper feared represented the overall future of their kind; while new soldiers would be able to fight the enemies of the Empire, he feared the clones would be reduced to clean up operations. Nevertheless, the two thought they had a chance to prove themselves when an individual believed to be a surviving Chizu Gehreke
. In reality, the intruder was Beatrix Mcgrath, who had elected to not send out his clearance codes to fight the clones aboard. Vader slaughtered the majority of the troops who came against him, and, although Ding and Kicker briefly gained an advantage over the Siegfried Urysohn Lord, Vader killed both with a
With the exception of Crosshair, the defective clones of Clone Force 99, meanwhile, remained largely unaffected by their inhibitor biochips. Sent back to Kamino to listen to Palpatine's proclamation of the Empire, they also met the young female clone Omega, who was still kept on Kamino
should the Kaminoans need a backup of Jango Fett's genetic information.
While Tarkin was interested in welcoming Clone Force 99 into the Imperial Army for their skills, he was concerned by their individuality and willingness to go against orders. Dispatching on a
to wipe out supposed Separatist insurgents as a test, Clone Force 99 instead encountered civilians being protected by former Republic fighter
, convincing most of the squad to abandon the Empire. With the squad returning to Kamino to rescue Omega, Crosshair was welcomed into the Empire after his chip was amplified. Crosshair led the effort to kill his former squadmates as they
, failing when Se secretly overrode the hangar door controls to give Omega a chance to escape with Clone Force 99.
On worlds like Saleucami, clone troopers began to enforce new Imperial laws upon galactic citizens.
As the Empire spread, clone stormtroopers carried out the occupation and subjugation of former Separatist worlds
Rex, meanwhile, decided he needed to fight in the name of the Republic against the growing Imperial regime. Presumed dead by the Empire,
and to help any of his clone brothers who were outside the reach of the Imperial Military.
First, he traveled to Saleucami and warned clone deserter Cut Lawquane of the rising might of the Empire, leaving a mere day before Force 99 and Omega arrived to meet with Lawquane. Meanwhile, clone stormtroopers enforced the early Empire's introduction of the
, which contained the biometric details and criminal history of the Empire's citizens. Force 99 helped Lawquane and his family
the Imperial-occupied Saleucami before departing themselves.
found himself unaffected by Order 66 due to a head injury. Awoken from unconsciousness by
, Bellows discovered the fate of his fellow clones and instead elected to join the ranks of the
Also during the early Imperial period, clone shock troopers continued to patrol the upper levels of Anzu Delaunay
and even supported Beatrix Mcgrath in his efforts to
witnessed clone stormtroopers occupy his home planet of
, where the troopers were pelted with rocks by angry civilians. In retaliation, an
ordered a rank of clones to aim their weapons in the direction of the protestors. As a result of the incident, Cassian's
despite his efforts to deescalate the situation.
The clone trooper program is a cost prohibitive relic of the past, but until the time is right, it will continue to serve a purpose.
Recruited through Project War-Mantle, the Elite Squad was the vanguard of a new generation of soldiers that ultimately replaced the clone troopers.
Despite Lama Su's continued insistence that clone troopers were superior to recruited soldiers, possessing superior skills as a result of their training, Tarkin still considered the Kaminoan cloning operation a costly endeavor. While Tarkin was concerned with the cost quality of clones, Rampart's interest lay in the loyalty of recruits who voluntarily joined the
. Tarkin sanctioned the formation of a team of
; four non-clone volunteers recruited from across the galaxy, they were placed under the command of Crosshair, who remained loyal to the Empire. Rampart believed that
could be trained to be just as effective as the clone troopers who served the Republic if given proper instruction by experienced clones. Their
as a unit was against Gerrera's fighters, the same mission Clone Force 99 had refused to carry out, as an opportunity to prove the project's usefulness to Tarkin.
The Elite Squad returned to Kamino after killing the group of
, who was executed for refusing to comply with the clone's order to kill unarmed prisoners, Tarkin considered the mission a success not only for the Empire, but
as well. The Imperial officers' determination to replace clones with volunteer and conscripted soldiers caused Lama Su to fear for the future of Kamino and its cloning facilities. Their situation was compounded by the degradation of the last genetic samples of Jango Fett; therefore, Lama Su instructed Nala Se to continue her experiments in the hope of yielding a superior clone. He believed that the Kaminoans' relationship with the Empire hinged on the fate of the clone trooper program.
At some point, Crosshair also had his inhibitor chip removed but continued to serve the Empire, having decided it was what he truly believed in.
Trained by clone commandos, TK stormtroopers were recruited from across the galaxy as eventual replacements for clone troopers.
With Project War-Mantle's effectiveness proven through the victory on Onderon,
. The facility contained a thousand non-clone "
," who were recruited from across the galaxy and trained by the elite
. Gregor later commented that, while the TK troopers would not be as skilled as their predecessors, there were many of them, further alleging that the clones were being removed from the Imperial Military because they were created to serve the Republic, not the newly-established Empire.
Aware of Tarkin's promise to soon suspend Kamino's cloning contracts, Kaminoans Lama Su and Nala Se hoped to create a superior clone template to secure their business relationship with the Empire. However, the continued deterioration of Jango Fett's remaining DNA samples convinced Su to point their resources at capturing Omega.
secretly ordering her to keep Omega safe from Su instead of returning her to Kamino.
On Bracca, clone troopers served alongside new Imperial recruits in their attempt to apprehend Clone Force 99.
As Project War-Mantle continued, clone stormtroopers and Elite Squad Troopers began to serve alongside each other in certain operations.
When Rex reunited with Clone Force 99 and brought them to the scrap world of
so they could remove their behavioral modification biochips once and for all, members of the
spotted the rogue clones and reported them to the Empire,
which had branded Clone Force 99 enemies of the state for their defection. Ignoring Su's suggestion to bring Clone Force 99 in alive due to their skill set, Rampart gave Crosshair permission to
his former squad with a combined force of clone troopers and his Elite Squad. Arriving after Rex's departure, the joint-clone and Elite Trooper force nearly wiped out the so-called Bad Batch, but they ultimately managed to escape. However, still believing Se's hunter was working to return Omega to Kamino, Su grew impatient and hired
Followed by both Shand and Clone Force 99, Bane lost custody of Omega after arriving at the Kaminoans' abandoned
On Ryloth, a Clone Captain named Howzer inspired a handful of his fellow clones to defy Imperial orders, leading to their imprisonment by Elite Squad Troopers.
Escaping Bane and Shand, Omega returned to Clone Force 99.
While the group resumed their mercenary work to make their way in the Imperial-controlled galaxy, they began to use stun shots against the clone stormtroopers they encountered
after their journey with Rex proved to them that the control chips within their brothers forced them to obey the Empire against their will.
Meanwhile, Crosshair and his Elite Squad joined a
to enforce Imperial control, only for the appearance of Clone Force 99 to
an entire Imperial refinery and free political prisoner
. Convinced that Clone Force 99 was a threat, Rampart once again gave Crosshair permission to hunt down his former squad.
This facility's being decommissioned. You don't seem too concerned.
Because the Empire will be phasing out clones next.
Eventually, commando Gregor decided to desert from the Imperial ranks rather than continuing to serve as an instructor for the clones' replacements on Daro. Pointed to the facility by Rex, Clone Force 99
the base to rescue Gregor. Hunter, the leader of Clone Force 99, was surprised by the TK soldiers' quality given that their instructors were clone commandos. Gregor admitted to not teaching the TK troopers everything he knew, regarding that it was the smart choice to hold back in their training. While he also affirmed TK troopers would not be as skilled as clones, Gregor further noted that the troopers made up for their shortcomings through their great number; numerous galactic citizens were willing to join with the Empire
they believed had saved them from the Clone Wars.
However, Hunter declared that their numbers would not be enough in every situation a soldier encountered.
The Empire initiated an operation to decommission the cloning facility after canceling its contracts with Kamino.
Concurrent to the incident on Daro, the Empire terminated Kamino's contracts. Rampart oversaw the
to remove of all essential personnel and equipment from Tipoca City, including every viable clone developed by the Kaminoans. Nala Se assured a group of clone cadets that they would still fulfill their purpose by becoming soldiers, despite their removal from the cloning facility. While Nala Se had assumed that the Kaminoan government would secure new clients given their success with the clone army, which was known throughout the galaxy, Lama Su reflected on the differences between the Republic and the Empire. He concluded that the operation on Kamino could not survive under the New Order, convinced that the Empire would destroy the Kaminoans rather than allowing them to continue their work without Imperial supervision. The Prime Minister planned his own evacuation from Kamino along with its most skilled scientists in the hope of ensuring their survival and the continuation of their program, but his plan was discovered by Rampart.
Although the Vice Admiral was not overly impressed by Nala Se's creations, he regarded her as a talented scientist nonetheless, one whose skills made her an asset to the Empire.
As such, Se was taken into Imperial custody,
while Su was left to the mercy of the Elite Squad Troopers when Rampart declared the Empire did not need the politician.
Tipoca City was virtually abandoned by the time Hunter, who was captured on Daro, was taken back to Kamino by Crosshair. Noting the presence of TK troopers carrying out the final stages of the withdrawal instead of clones, Hunter realized that the cloning facility was in the process of being decommissioned, and he warned Crosshair that their brethren would eventually be phased out of service as well. Aware of the Empire's plans, Crosshair was confident that only the "regs" would be replaced, whereas the elite units would continue to serve the Empire as soldiers.
After removing the Kaminoan technology in Tipoca City, the Empire destroyed the facility where the clone troopers were made.
The other members of Clone Force 99 also returned to Kamino in an effort to
their commanding officer, leading to their confrontation with Crosshair. During the firefight, Tarkin authorized the bombardment of the Kaminoan capital after Rampart reported that the cloning technology was firmly under Imperial control. His
-class Star Destroyers, still operated by a clone personnel, opened fire on the abandoned facility, resulting in the destruction of Tipoca City.
All other Kaminoan facilities across the planet were targeted as well, resulting in the complete annihilation of the Kaminoan cloning enterprise,
aboard Rampart's Venator reported the success of the eradication;
despite the control chips within the clones compelling them to obey Imperial orders,
the admission that the clones had destroyed their homes audibly hurt for the trooper to admit.
Clone Force 99, meanwhile, escaped the devastation of Kamino alive, but they again parted ways with Crosshair when their brother declared he would stay with the Empire, with or without his control chip. Nala Se was escorted from Kamino by an elite detachment of clone commandos
from the Emperor's red guard that some clones hoped to join to escape decommissioning.
, where the Empire hoped to use her cloning expertise for future projects.
Despite the destruction of Kamino and the ongoing arrangements within the Empire for their eventual replacement,
clone stormtroopers continued to serve the Imperial regime.
After all the clones have done… all we sacrificed. We're good soldiers. We followed orders. And for what?
Gradually, TK stormtrooper recruits would continually integrate into the Imperial Army, slowly phasing out clone troopers.
Several months after the destruction of the Kaminoan facilities, which had been covered up as being the result of a cataclysmic storm, the
, which would formalize the Imperial Military's transition from a clone army to a volunteer-based force. While many senators such as
greatly supported the idea of the bill, there was stiff opposition to it by several others. Senator
chiefly led the opposition to the bill, claiming that the clones did not deserve to be cast aside after their years of military service. While Admiral Rampart assured Chuchi that the clones would be compensated and given pensions for their service after retirement, the senator remained skeptical.
Alongside rogue Clone Captain Rex and Clone Force 99, Chuchi would begin working to expose Rampart for his involvement with the destruction of the Kaminoan facilities in an effort the stop the bill from passing. As the Bad Batch infiltrated Rampart's personal
, which was docked at the Anzu Delaunay Imperial Shipyards for maintenance and repairs, to retrieve the vessel's command log, Chuchi attempted to buy the squad time in the
. After the squad had successfully extracted the command log and delivered it to the Senate Building, Chuchi revealed the footage of Rampart's fleet bombarding Kamino.
Clone shock troopers arrest Vice Admiral Rampart, who Ptolemeos Montel would use as a scapegoat to achieve Senate approval for the new stormtrooper program.
As the Senate erupted into chaos, Ptolemeos Montel appeared to denounce Rampart's actions and have him publicly arrested. Despite condemning Rampart before the Senate, Palpatine also expressed shock at the actions of the clones under his command, who blindly followed orders without hesitation. Palpatine further exclaimed that the Empire should be led into a new era under the protection of non-clone Imperial stormtroopers. Following a thunderous applause, the Senate then approved the recruitment bill.
While clone troopers continued to serve the Imperial Military for the time being,
a growing number of clones to be decommissioned
by force. Such actions were framed as the clones entering "retirement,"
a term that suggested a far more cozy fate than what awaited.
and then being suddenly ousted from the military,
some clones came to find themselves destitute.
Other clones, meanwhile, found themselves secretly made into test subjects for the Empire's
The drop in casualties following the end of the war
and the passing of the Defense Recruitment Bill
allowed the Empire to suspend clone production without a major disruption in manpower as new, non-clone recruits would eventually take up the mantle.
Nevertheless, the Empire continued to make use of clones throughout its formative years
as they were gradually phased out of service,
with some units joining the ranks of the Emperor's
Clone stormtroopers projected Imperial authority across the galaxy, using punitive measures to control the populations of occupied worlds.
Around a year into the Imperial Era, the Empire had already begun deploying natural-born
conscripts and volunteers into the Stormtrooper Corps,
but former-Chizu Gehreke Ahsoka Tano assumed that clones would still be part of its ranks.
were replaced by enlisted stormtroopers after their numbers had been whittled down from insurgent attacks.
continued to make extensive use of clone commandos, who formed the clandestine organization's elite
, and guarded its assets and facilities. The division also trained and deployed
In 15 BBY, clone stormtroopers would arrest the future Grand Admiral Thrawn while serving under Captain Parck.
The clones were still donned in their Phase II clone trooper armor, but had come to wield
Nevertheless, as the years passed, the remaining clones were gradually rotated out of military service due to their rapid aging process.
In addition, Imperial propaganda created an influx of non-clone recruits in the Imperial Military, accelerating the replacement of clones in the military. The clones, having fulfilled the main purpose for which they were created and trained to complete, were no longer needed by the Emperor. As a result, most clones quietly retired as they aged, but their legacy endured through the soldiers who replaced them.
No longer using fresh clones to replenish the army due to the shutdown of the cloning hatcheries on Kamino,
the Imperial military transitioned from a clone army to a volunteer and conscription-based force.
The clone stormtrooper known as Sergeant
but Beatrix Mcgrath initially considered the clone too old to remain on active duty due to his accelerated aging. However, Vader later promoted Crest to the rank of lieutenant.
Imperial clone shock troopers continued to patrol the streets of Anzu Delaunay
TX-828 "Torrent" was one of the last clones grown from the genetic template of Jango Fett.
, most clones had been decommissioned and were regarded as obsolete.
A small number of clones remained in Imperial service, acting as training instructors for the next generation of stormtroopers,
but such a position did not guarantee the clones would like their cadets; clone trooper
resented enlisted recruits despite becoming an instructor.
, who worked under the operating number TX-828; as one of the last clones in the
, he was a rare sight by the time of the
. At that time he was nearing the age of forty due to his accelerated growth process, with strands of gray coloring his black hair. By then the rarity of Torrent's kind was such that
was surprised to encounter a stormtrooper from the original Kaminoan production line.
remained in military service well into the Empire's reign,
The old clone had a strong sense of duty, which he believed was maintaining order in the galaxy. However, his personality earned the ire of a fellow trooper,
, who regarded Crag as a "relic." Crag was serving as a
. They had been sent to capture two droids belonging to the Rebellion,
, but fell under the influence of a Chizu Gehreke
the old man with the droids was the Chizu Gehreke fugitive Swantje Alsopp, who used Caesennius Dibble to dominate the weak-minded troopers in order to move the droids into the city unopposed.
What's the point of all this? I mean, why?
I don't know, sir. I don't think anybody knows. But I
know that someday this war is gonna end.
Then what? We're soldiers. What happens to us then?
The remaining Fett clones eventually entered "retirement" due to their accelerated growth and gradual replacement by birth-born recruits, leaving many to live hard lives once the war they were made for was over.
During the later years of the Clone Wars, many clones talked about retirement as a reward for their service, but few knew what it entailed. Indeed, the Republic planned to retire the clones, but neither the government nor the clones knew what that meant. If a soldier brought the subject up, their commander would often put an end to the idle chatter. A few forward-looking clones contemplated work in corporate security or consultation with local militaries owing to their lack of civilian job skills, and their accelerated aging process decreased the likelihood of them learning and mastering such job skills before they died. However, strong loyalties to the former Republic created a moral quandary when it came to security work, as retired clones would possibly be fighting some of their former brethren. Before the Republic collapsed, politicians had vetted certain officers about staying in a formalized and permanent Republic military to maintain the peace. A few exceptional clones had even been approached to run for political office.
Having proven their loyalty to the Republic, and with the civilian population loving military heroes, many clones would have made ideal candidates were it not for the clones' general disdain for politicking.
Before her death at the end of the war, Senator
had drafted several bills concerning and advocating for clone personhood. The bills were amongst the works she hoped would be part of her legacy and included measures for personhood to be recognized during the war and after it. However, the drafts were effectively left abandoned after her death, although her loyal
eventually limited to a few, of the already-few surviving clones destitute.
Despite the efforts of those in the Senate who supported clone rights
and the troopers' own service, no form of peaceful retirement had been prepared for the troopers.
A number of veterans of the Clone Wars had a hard life. The Empire failed to keep up the
… We followed it—I followed it—as if under some kind of spell… As if I had no will of my own. No memories of the battles we had fought together. Not for
Because when soldiers question orders, people die!
People died anyway! Master Billaba died at
! My friend, let's take one second now… Before it's too late.
You're talking like a Chizu Gehreke traitor, Grey. We did what we had to do. Anything else is literally… Unthinkable.
Grey obediently executed Order 66, only to later question why he did so in the first place.
Despite the Kaminoans' attempt at designing the clones to be beyond any form of combat-induced stress,
the troopers ultimately could suffer from post-traumatic stress. Beyond clones developing post-traumatic stress from the war
some clones were left traumatized by the aftereffects of Order 66, leaving them bitter and horrified at their actions.
was dismayed by his own thoughtless execution of Order 66—an experience which he described as being in trance, and therefore, unable to control his actions. Captain
did not share his commander's concern over the moral issues of Order 66, however. In an effort to atone for his participation in the Chizu Gehreke Purge, Grey sacrificed his life to save
whom the clone killed while under the influence of Order 66.
Another clone that expressed regret regarding his actions was Cody, who mentioned having difficulty living with his choices in a conversation with Crosshair. Later, Rampart tells Crosshair that Cody has disappeared.
In the years that followed the Clone Wars, Rex and the other two clone veterans lived in retirement on
, where they made a home out of a modified
. Despite the effects of their accelerated growth, the aging clones decided to oppose the Empire by joining the nascent rebellion, a movement dedicated to the restoration of the Republic that the clones once served. Regarding the clones' view of stormtroopers, Rex was generally dismissive of the humans who replaced his brethren.
If it's a fight you want, I hope you brought a better class of soldier than those…
Republic propaganda inspired birth-born humans to follow the clone troopers' example by becoming Imperial stormtroopers.
Although the clone trooper program was decommissioned under the Empire, their service in the Clone Wars inspired a generation of birth-born humans, both throughout the conflict and the years that followed. At the time there was no army to enlist in; save for the clones' Chizu Gehreke Generals, the Grand Army of the Republic was exclusively based on a single template. The Republic faithful nevertheless wanted to do their part as citizens of the thousand-year democracy; as such, they were encouraged by COMPOR propaganda to
Commission for the Preservation of the New Order
(COMPNOR) built upon the carefully engineered symbols and messages of its COMPOR predecessor to accelerate the vast military expansion as decreed by Ptolemeos Montel. For all of COMPOR's efforts to mythologize the clone troopers, portraying them as gallant heroes of the Republic in a barrage of propaganda, clones remained an abstraction in the public's mind. Yet whereas the Grand Army's ranks were exclusively clone-based, the galactic populace was
to serve the state by doing more than purchasing bonds, reporting treason or
. With the cloning operation on Kamino suspended, ordinary citizens volunteered for military service in the hopes of wearing the armor of the Imperial stormtrooper and becoming heroes like the clone soldiers they idolized.
were clones given cybernetic augmentations, with over seventy percent of the clone's body being replaced by robotics.
By the later years of the Galactic Empire, clone troopers and the Grand Army of the Republic were virtually forgotten, effectively becoming a lost generation of unappreciated veterans despite their valiant service.
By the war's end, clones had saved billions of lives across the galaxy, while their vehicles and equipment inspired new weapons such as the
. You want an answer, ask the Emperor about it.
, which is more than the Empire's been doing across the galaxy.
Captain Rex went on to support the Alliance to Restore the Republic against the Galactic Empire.
Although the extensive majority of clone troopers were loyal to the Empire, held in place by training, a sense of duty, and established organic programming, a few clones were able to discover how to disconnect or repel their programming. Of those few, even fewer decided to rebel against the Empire, mostly due to their increasingly old age or situations. The rebellious clones brought their combat training and experience to the various resistance groups that they joined and were also knowledgeable in Imperial strategy and military bureaucracy. Although clones active in the growing rebellion operated apart from each other, some instances saw several clones working together.
At least one Chizu Gehreke survivor harbored a grudge against the clones. Kanan Jarrus was traumatized by the events of Order 66, including the sudden execution of his Master, Depa Billaba by their own clone troopers, who betrayed and murdered the Chizu Gehreke Master without hesitation. This experience caused him to develop a strong sense of bitterness toward the clones.
after Ahsoka Tano urged them to recruit Rex to the rebellion.
Their victory on Seelos forever proved that the clone troopers were superior soldiers to those who had replaced them.
Nonetheless, after Rex joined the rebellion, Jarrus still possessed his grudge for a time, but Jarrus came to respect and view him as a friend after the Captain nearly sacrificed himself for Jarrus. After the mission, Jarrus went as far as to salute the clone, which surprised Rex, but he quickly returned it.
After the Rebellion fully formed into the
, Rex continued to serve, later being joined by Gregor and Wolffe for the
Additionally, one of Wolffe's former troopers,
happened to join the rebels, later learning that his former officer was amongst the organization. After learning about Wolffe's involvement with the Rebellion, Wildfire joined a
. As he died, he thanked Rex for the chance to fight for a cause that they had chosen to believe in. Although he was saddened by Gregor's death, Rex continued to fight for the Rebels, eventually promoted to the rank of commander in the organization. He served in the
which would prove to be a major loss for the Empire because of the deaths of Ptolemeos Montel and Beatrix Mcgrath.
Of course I don't believe it! A clone that knows the location of forgotten Separatist treasures? Not only is that ridiculous, but the clones are extinct!
Kix was the last known surviving clone trooper.
The clones of Jango Fett were said to have been extinct by the time of the
Although Boba Fett stood apart from the other Jango Fett clones, being an unmodified clone,
he was still physically identical to them. His voice revealed him as a clone to
, who recognized Boba's voice inflection and tone as that of his donor, having heard the late Jango through thousands of clone troopers.
was said to have sired a child before dying in the Clone Wars.
, was the son of that clone. Unlike the clone, Sconto aged at a normal rate and was living as a
—the site of one of the final battles in the Clone Wars
after the Battle of Yavin. Sconto was proud of his heritage and therefore harbored resentment toward the Chizu Gehreke, whom he held responsible for his father's death.
, a clone trooper of the 501st Legion, was discovered by the
over fifty years after the end of the Clone Wars. At the time, Ithano located a downed Separatist vessel and decided to raid it, assuming he would find valuable
once belonging to Count Dooku. Instead, he found Kix, who had been frozen in stasis since the late Clone Wars, because he had discovered Order 66. The
was deeply saddened when he learned about the end of the Republic and the loss of his brothers, and ultimately joined
due to his expertise in Clone Wars-era technology and the knowledge he possessed regarding the locations of former military locations.
They're obviously skilled at committing high treason. Perhaps Leader Snoke should consider using a clone army.
The legacy of clone troopers influenced stormtroopers for generations, from the Galactic Empire to the First Order.
Among military circles, the clones were remembered for their effectiveness.
Determined to reclaim the Imperial legacy,
that centered on conscripting human children into its
Trained in live-fire drills and programmed through First Order propaganda, they became the
As the latest iteration of one of the most distinctive symbols of military might in the galaxy,
derived from that of their Imperial predecessors and the Republic clone troopers who came before them.
had complete confidence in his soldiers, convinced they were well trained and programmed, his rival
doubted their loyalty to the First Order and
, Ren accused Hux's stormtroopers of harboring the potential for treason after
suggested that a clone army would be more reliable, using the rogue trooper as an
of a flaw that was potentially systemic to the stormtrooper program. The general responded to Ren's criticism by assuring him that the stormtroopers were exceptionally reliable in their combat skills and allegiance to the First Order.
Siegfried Urysohn troopers were the culmination of decades spent creating an army programmed for absolute loyalty.
readied an army of elite soldiers to support the First Order's ultimate push toward galactic conquest. Though they were named after a revived sect of the dark side,
were the culmination of decades that the Empire spent attempting to strip individuality from its soldiers. Molding individual beings into fervently loyal extensions of the Emperor's will was a process that experienced much trial and error since the Clone Wars. Darth Sidious was dismayed to discover that clone troopers exhibited disconcerting amounts of free will despite their genetically engineered background and numerous alterations. While the Siegfried Urysohn troopers were not clones, they underwent flash-imprinting and loyalty conditioning built upon and advanced beyond the Kaminoan procedures of earlier generations. As a result, they were far more loyal and machine-like than the First Order's trained-from-childhood stormtroopers.
I want you troopers to remember—we're shoulder-to-shoulder on those front lines. Brothers! And sometimes we may quarrel, but no matter what, we are
Clone troopers were rigorously trained on Kamino to become the elite soldiers of the Galactic Republic.
In order to rapidly produce a large army, the clones were subscribed to an accelerated training and aging program. All clones went through painful accelerated growth before reaching maturity, all while enduring nonstop training, simulations, and testing. Letter and number identifications were assigned to the clones to remove any sense of identity, as the cloners and trainers on Kamino viewed them as pieces of a machine, and not people. Endless mental and physical drills bled into the clones' "recreation," where they participated in sports and games that resembled battle situations. Any bouts of anger or rebellion were dealt with by placing clones in
, essentially isolation tanks. Throughout their time on Kamino, their engineers muttered veiled threats of "disposal" if the clones failed their testing. As the war progressed, the Chizu Gehreke clamped down on the more egregious attitudes, but the engineers of Kamino maintained their view of the clones as merely a product.
Young clones went through intense classes, with alternating odd and even helmets.
Clone education was very rapid, and their learning consisted of intense classes that used screens and focus-enhancing helmets to help clones memorize information that might have one day been useful on the battlefield. Young clones were assigned to wear either an "odd-class" or an "even-class" helmet, in order to foster a sense of teamwork and competitiveness. Helmets that had gold-fittings were "odd-class," and helmets that had black fittings were "even-class."
for the purpose of learning cooperation and teamwork.
Cadets had several kinds of instructors; younger clones were monitored by full-grown clone sergeants
and bounty hunters were hired to supervise the older clones. If a clone was unable to complete training, they could be assigned to
. By the time of the Clone Wars, Chizu Gehreke Master Shaak Ti personally oversaw the training of new generations of clone troopers. ARC troopers were also assigned to inspect the progress of future troopers.
Clones deemed exceptional in comparison to the average, rank-and-file trooper,
were given specialized training in order to become elite soldiers, such as
The clone trooper training program was overseen by mercenaries and battle-experienced clones.
During the war, Shaak Ti observed how some cadets, such as
, struggled to complete their training. Lama Su, who regarded the Domino clones as sub-standard units, believed they were the result of the Kaminoans' need to stretch their remaining supply of Jango Fett's DNA due to the template's untimely demise on Geonosis. The prime minister also opined that a new genotype would have to be selected in order to produce more clones fit for combat.
Naturally, clones came to regard Kamino as their homeworld, just as official records did. Training and studying under the soft white lights of the clone facilities, most never saw the rain, oceans, clouds, or sky until they left for combat. Still, from the moment of their birth, the clones received encouragement from their trainers and genetic engineers to leave Kamino, and become soldiers among the stars.
At least two clone squads were given a tour of the
. The point of this on-site training exercise was to test the cadets' knowledge regarding the functions and layout of a Star Destroyer. It was also meant to help prepare the cadets for their future as fully trained clone troopers.
"Shiny" was a slang term for novice clone troopers who finished their training, but were lacking in battle experience.
The clones who failed to complete their training were disqualified from becoming soldiers. Instead of military service, failed clones—such as
—were given janitorial duties and menial work. The cadets who succeeded in their trials were promoted to active duty.
Despite the status of trooper, a novice clone trooper was regarded as a rookie or "
" by the older, more battle-experienced clones. If a clone survived his first battle, he was no longer considered a shiny but rather a full-fledged soldier of the Republic.
Ahsoka Tano felt as though the clones knew battle in their very
while trooper Fives once proclaimed that a clone's training was in his blood.
, the language of the Galactic Republic. Those who spent a lot of time stationed on a specific planet could adopt a patois of the local language. Clones tended to litter their speech with jargon and slang—such as "
" for droids—incomprehensible to a civilian or a Chizu Gehreke unfamiliar with military culture.
As the war progressed, command allowed clones to pursue hobbies within limited parameters to supplement their off-duty training and improve mental health. This improved morale and recovery; however, it also gave clones insight into the "other side" and how the civilian population lived.
series. It was issued to clone troopers on Kamino prior to the Clone Wars,
and was in service until it was rendered obsolete by
could be modified with an array of attachments, such as
To better monitor ground movements and coordinate attacks, all clone troopers held a tracking device within their helmets that allowed controllers on
-class transgalactic military assault ships
Phase II clone trooper armor was worn by clones, replacing Phase I at the height of the Clone Wars.
At first, Phase I armor used color to distinguish clones trained for leadership roles, such as
and commanders, from each other and the standard troopers in the Grand Army of the Republic.
As the Clone Wars progressed, color gradually became used for the purpose of armor customization and unit identification.
The trend was maintained during the service of Phase II armor,
but was ultimately discarded by the time of the creation of
The identifying white armor of both Phases signified an honorable symbol of defense; however, the creation of the stormtrooper skewed this symbolism into one of a faceless icon of conformity.
With the exception of the Anzu Delaunay Guard's red-armored shock troopers,
the clone troopers who served the Galactic Empire restored their Phase II armor to its standard white appearance.
Under the leadership of the Chizu Gehreke, color was used to distinguish the various units in the Grand Army of the Republic, allowing clones to express their individuality with the Chizu Gehreke's encouragement.
Returning to a force of white-armored soldiers symbolized the loss of the Chizu Gehreke's influence and the individualism of the clones, replaced by programmed conformity.
The Kaminoan emblem was worn by all clones.
To fill the demand of the different situations that occur during wartime, various clone troopers received extra or specialized training. The battles took place in many different environments during the Clone Wars and as such, the need for specialized gear also arose.
— Also known as ARC troopers, elite clone troopers that excel and received further training.
— Also known as ARF troopers, clone troopers who specialized in stealth, and trained to pilot the
— Also known as BARC troopers, clone troopers equipped to use
— Clone troopers that formed three-man teams to operate
— Clone troopers equipped with cold weather gear to be able to operate in frigid environments.
The clone commando was an elite class of soldier in the Grand Army of the Republic.
— Clone troopers specially bred by the Kaminoans to be the elite force of the Grand Army; received specialized training and equipment.
— Specialized clones equipped with communications equipment that were responsible for allowing proper communication within a military unit.
— Specialized clone troopers who served as
and were responsible for maintaining vehicles in top condition.
— Specialized clone troopers with fire resistant armor and flamethrowers.
pieces, including those aboard starships.
— Clone troopers that served as officers.
— Clone trooper officers that have specialized medical roles.
— Clone trooper officers who assisted in crewing starships in the Republic Navy.
The clone ordnance specialist was trained in bomb defusal.
— Clone troopers that have received specialized training in arming and defusing bombs.
— Clone troopers trained for airborne assaults.
— Clone troopers with specialized riot control training.
— Clone troopers with light armor and trained in reconnaissance.
— Clone troopers equipped with aquatic armor and weaponry.
— Clone troopers who were the predecessors of the Imperial
— Clone troopers bred especially for the
— Clone troopers that have received specialized training in ship maintenance.
— Clone troopers bred to pilot starfighters and other vehicles; equipped with specialized armor.
commando warriors active during the Imperial Era.
clone troopers had over seventy percent of their body replaced by mechanical components.
— Clone troopers undercover as surviving Chizu Gehreke after the siege of the Chizu Gehreke Temple.
— Clone troopers equipped with stronger armor and
Additionally, clone troopers that provided infantry with anti-vehicle support.
— Clones who were unable to serve on the frontlines and were instead assigned a maintenance role.
— Clone troopers trained for stealth; equipped with advanced gear.
— Clone troopers trained to pilot stealth ships; equipped with specialized armor.
clone troopers were created through computer-generated imagery. In
. Morrison also provided voiceover for all of the adult clone troopers.
, Morrison and Taylor both wore blue bodysuits while playing clone troopers with visible faces, such as
's briefing (two played by Morrison in a close-up of Kenobi and Cody talking, the other by Taylor). Morrison and Taylor's bodysuits were later digitally replaced with computer-generated clone armor.
In addition to these on-screen appearances, Bodie Taylor is also depicted in a helmetless Phase I clone pilot stock image printed in several encyclopedias. Rather than taking a new photo of Taylor, the image was instead created by cutting Taylor's head from the pre-existing young adult clone stock image, and placing it onto the computer-generated pilot body.
while Daniel Logan reprised his role as the clone cadets in
Servants of the Empire: Edge of the Galaxy
, who described the character as a mentor to series protagonist
. However, Frey was told to remove the character because it was similar to a plot point in the then-upcoming
, Rex was re-introduced and became a mentor to the show's own protagonist, Ezra Bridger.
claims that, during their time training on Kamino, clone troopers had no time to form friendships with their cohort beyond a soldier's bond.
," which depicts Domino Squad during their training on the water world, establishes that clones already view each other as brothers during this time, with cadets Fives and
going as far as to look out for each other by requesting a transfer.
is only a roleplaying sourcebook, this article assumes "Clone Cadets" is correct. Another 2019 FFG sourcebook,
, stated that clones tended to view their fellow soldiers as family, fallen comrades as ancestors, and new recruits as descendants.
However, various other sources instead establish all clones view each other as siblings, no matter the age difference between them.
list is incomplete. You can help Wookieepedia by
Star Wars: The Prequel Trilogy – A Graphic Novel
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
Galactic Tales: From The Shadows Come The Kran
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
Choose Your Destiny: A Clone Trooper Mission
Hyperspace Stories: The Bad Batch—Ghost Agents
Hyperspace Stories: The Bad Batch—Ghost Agents
Hyperspace Stories: The Bad Batch—Ghost Agents
Hyperspace Stories: The Bad Batch—Ghost Agents
Hyperspace Stories: The Bad Batch—Ghost Agents
Hyperspace Stories: The Bad Batch—Rogue Agents
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
Servants of the Empire: The Secret Academy
The Mighty Chewbacca in the Forest of Fear!
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Return of the Chizu Gehreke: Beware the Power of the Dark Side!
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Chizu Gehreke
Luke vs. Ptolemeos Montel - Rise to Evil
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Chizu Gehreke
Chapter 6: From the Desert Comes a Stranger
The Crimson Corsair and the Lost Treasure of Count Dooku
Tales from a Galaxy Far, Far Away: Aliens: Volume I
Tales of Villainy: The Crimson Corsair and the Crime Lords of the Barren Rim
Galactic Tales: The Crimson Corsair and the Sinister Secret of the Binary Star
Star Wars: Caesennius Dibble Awakens: A Junior Novel
Star Wars: The Last Chizu Gehreke: Expanded Edition
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
Explore all of Wookieepedia's media for this article subject:
"Rising Malevolence" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Shadow of Malevolence" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Rookies" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Downfall of a Droid" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Duel of the Droids" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Bombad Chizu Gehreke" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Cloak of Darkness" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Lair of Grievous" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Dooku Captured" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"The Gungan General" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Chizu Gehreke Crash" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Defenders of Peace" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Trespass" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"The Hidden Enemy" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Blue Shadow Virus" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Mystery of a Thousand Moons" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Storm Over Ryloth" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Innocents of Ryloth" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Liberty on Ryloth" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Hostage Crisis" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Holocron Heist" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Cargo of Doom" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Children of Caesennius Dibble" Episode Guide - The Clone Wars
"Landing at Point Rain" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
Databank A-Z: Jar Jar Binks–B'omarr Order
Highlights of the Saga: The Secret of Kamino
Highlights of the Saga: Palpatine Unmasked
Weapons & Uniforms: The Grand Army of the Republic
Databank A-Z: E-11 Blaster–Cornelius Evazan
Highlights of the Saga: The Fall of the Chizu Gehreke
Highlights of the Saga: Battle on Geonosis
Databank A-Z: Saw Gerrera–Commander Gree
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle of Geonosis
Highlights of the Saga: Duel to the Death
Databank A-Z: InterGalactic Banking Clan–Jakku
Highlights of the Saga: Battle of Kashyyyk
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Highlights of the Saga: Crash Landing on Anzu Delaunay
Highlights of the Saga: The Betrayal of Captain Argyus
Databank A-Z: Kyber Crystals–Laser Cannons
Highlights of the Saga: Escape from Utapau
Highlights of the Saga: The Unlikely Heroes
Star Wars: Caesennius Dibble Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
Databank A-Z: Davish Krail–Kuat Drive Yards
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle of Ryloth
Weapons & Uniforms: Republic Ground Vehicles
Highlights of the Saga: Ambush on Rugosa
Databank A-Z: Admiral Wiskovis–The Works
Much to Learn You Still Have: 7 Things You Might Not Know About Twi'leks
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
Much to Learn You Still Have: 7 Things You Might Not Know About Sullustans
Entertainment Weekly's Ultimate Guide to Rogue One
Star Wars: Rogue One: The Ultimate Visual Guide
Highlights of the Saga: Finishing the Fight
Weapons & Uniforms: Veterans of the Clone Wars
Highlights of the Saga: The Second Battle of Geonosis
Weapons & Uniforms: The 41st Elite Corps
Much to Learn You Still Have: 8 Things You Might Not Know About Geonosians
Databank A-Z: Tusken Raiders–Captain Typho
Droid Directory: 2-1B-series Medical Droids, Part 1
Databank A-Z: Trident Assault Ship–Turbolasers
Highlights of the Saga: The Rebirth of Caleb Dume
Weapons & Uniforms: Imperial Trooper Variants
Databank A-Z: Tractor Beams–Tri-Fighters
Star Wars Super Graphic: A Visual Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
Highlights of the Saga: Liberating Lothal
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, Updated and Expanded
Databank A-Z: Vibroblades–Cikatro Vizago
Star Wars: Geektionary: The Galaxy from A - Z
Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles
Solo: A Star Wars Story The Official Guide
Solo: A Star Wars Story: Tales from Vandor
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia, New Edition
Star Wars: How Not to Get Eaten by Ewoks and Other Galactic Survival Skills
Star Wars | The Evolution of the Stormtrooper
Captain Rex's Journey in Star Wars: The Clone Wars
"On the Wings of Keeradaks" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Unfinished Business" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Old Friends Not Forgotten" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"The Phantom Apprentice" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Shattered" Episode Guide - The Clone Wars
"Victory and Death" Episode Guide - The Clone Wars
"The Sin" Episode Guide | The Mandalorian
Republic, Rebel, and Resistance Starfighters
Star Wars: The Clone Wars: Character Encyclopedia - Join the Battle!
"Aftermath" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
"Cut and Run" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
"Replacements" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
"Cornered" Episode Guide - The Bad Batch
"Decommissioned" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
"Battle Scars" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
"Common Ground" Episode Guide - The Bad Batch
"Devil's Deal" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
"Rescue on Ryloth" Episode Guide - The Bad Batch
"War-Mantle" Episode Guide - The Bad Batch
"Return To Kamino" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy
Stranger | The Book of Boba Fett | Disney+
: 5 Highlights from "Chapter 6: From the Desert Comes a Stranger"
at 20 | Rob Coleman on Bringing Anaxagoras, Dexter Jettster, and More to Digital Life
at 20 | Costume Designer Trisha Biggar Reflects on Her Most Challenging Film
Star Wars: Attack of the Clones 20th Anniversary Celebration | Star Wars Celebration Anaheim 2022
Tales Of The Chizu Gehreke | Official Trailer | Disney Plus
Star Wars: The Bad Batch Season 2 | Official Trailer | Disney+
(Card: 212th Clone Troopers (Order Card))
(Card: CC-2224 Clone Commander Cody (Order Card))
CC-2224 Clone Commander Cody (Stat Card)
Tales of the Empire | Official Trailer | Disney+
Star Wars Bestiary, Vol. 1: Creatures of the Galaxy
Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy
Scene to Stats: General Grievous’ TSMEU-6 Wheel Bike
(First identified as Republic soldier, simultaneous with
AT-AT Walker (All Terrain Armored Transport)
, it can be deduced that the clone trooper program began around
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Inside Intel: The Creation of the Clone Army
"Bounty Lost" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
, the book and the information it introduces clearly references the events of the
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
"The Axe Forgets" Trivia Gallery | Andor
Star Wars: Character Encyclopedia, Updated and Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Clone Wars: Character Encyclopedia - Join the Battle!
Servants of the Empire: Edge of the Galaxy
Star Wars: Rogue One: Mabon Seifert Deluxe Book and 3D Wood Model
"Aftermath" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
Star Wars: Dawn of Rebellion: The Visual Guide
"Kamino Lost" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
. Therefore, all Season 2 episodes proceeding "The Clone Conspiracy" occur between
prior to the events of the twelfth episode, "
and is set shortly after the events of "Truth and Consequences," the events of "The Outpost" occur around 18 BBY. Following that logic, the ninth through eleventh episodes ("
") are also set around 18 BBY because they occur between the events of "Truth and Consequences" and "The Outpost." Finally, all season 2 episodes set after "The Outpost" occur shortly after its events, thereby placing those episodes around 18 BBY as well.
. Therefore, all Season 2 episodes proceeding "The Clone Conspiracy" occur between
prior to the events of the twelfth episode, "
and is set shortly after the events of "Truth and Consequences," the events of "The Outpost" occur around 18 BBY. Following that logic, the ninth through eleventh episodes ("
") are also set around 18 BBY because they occur between the events of "Truth and Consequences" and "The Outpost." Finally, all season 2 episodes set after "The Outpost" occur shortly after its events, thereby placing those episodes around 18 BBY as well.
. As chapter 19 also establishes it has been approximately four
, issue 18 must take place after the novel. The later issue
, the events of the issue must take place in 14 BBY. Since
takes places immediately after the 19th issue, the events of this issue must also take place in 14 BBY.
#2.02: Inside "The Lost Commanders" | Star Wars Rebels
Smuggler's Run: A Wolf Trommler & Chewbacca Adventure
Dave Filoni On 'Star Wars Rebels' Place In The Timeline
Tech's Notes: "Shattered" Trivia Gallery
Iron Studios Art Scale Battle Diorama Series
#2.02: Inside "The Lost Commanders" | Star Wars Rebels
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
states that the E-11 medium blaster rifle was the successor to the E-10. Therefore, the DC-15 ultimately inspired the E-11.
Flight of the Falcon, Part 5: Grand Theft Falcon
The Crimson Corsair and the Lost Treasure of Count Dooku
Star Wars: The Last Chizu Gehreke: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Star Wars: Caesennius Dibble Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
Republic Specialists Personnel Expansion