Parts of this article are no longer up to date. This article needs updating from multiple sources. Click the dropdown below to see the full list.
Starship Fact File: Firespray Pursuit Special —
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia: Updated and Expanded
Starfighter Aces: Jango Fett — Legendary Bounty Hunter
Star Wars: The Secrets of the Bounty Hunters
Please update the article to include missing information, and remove this template when finished.
I'm just a simple man trying to make my way in the universe.
. Known as the best bounty hunter in the galaxy during the
, Fett was proficient in marksmanship as well as
that he wore featured various weapons and gadgets, including a
of the Mandalorians trained by a mentor known partially as
before becoming a bounty hunter. As a bounty hunter, Fett worked with and became acquainted with several fellow hunters and individuals in the criminal underworld including the Duros
. In time, Fett became widely regarded as the galaxy's best bounty hunter, with a notoriety matched by few other bounty hunters.
who shared his face, voice, and were trained to become soldiers. As part of his payment, Fett was given an unaltered clone whom he raised as his
investigated the incident, forcing Fett to leave the
. His legacy survived not only through the millions of clone
, but also Boba, who became a bounty hunter like his
worn by Jango, although its appearance had been altered significantly.
Yes. He even fought in the Mandalorian Civil Wars.
―Din Djarin, to Boba Fett after seeing Boba's chain code
A suit of Mandalorian armor was given to Jango Fett, a foundling who later became a bounty hunter.
came from this Mandalorian world, his exact history remained unknown, much to Fett's enjoyment.
As a boy, Fett was a prodigy in unarmed combat.
and taken into ranks of the Mandalorians
He was taught by a mentor known partially as
and it was during the wars that he was first given
Eventually, however, his time with the Mandalorians led him
Although he would retain his Mandalorian
disavowed any connection to Fett, claiming that he was simply a
hunter who had somehow stolen an artifact from
But, Dad, can't you just take the jobs you want?
I can now. But it took a long time to get here. We aren't born with our reputations. We have to earn them.
Over the course of many years, Fett rose to become known as the greatest bounty hunter in the galaxy.
During the final years of the Galactic Republic,
rose to the top of the bounty hunting trade, where he expertly used his advanced armor and twin
Initially, Fett was not able to just take on the jobs that he wanted, and it took him many years to build his reputation until he could operate as he chose to and saw fit.
Ultimately, Fett became widely regarded as the best bounty hunter in
At some point in his career Fett began to work with
Once being mentored by the legendary man,
who was a major bounty hunter by the time of the
, came to owe Fett several favors that he never paid off.
Jango Fett stole his iconic starship, the
At one point in time, Fett and Wesell journeyed to a terrestrial astronomical object called
. While there, Fett and Wesell used a tactic, with his companion nearly
At another point, Fett undertook another job to
During this event, Fett stole a Firespray-31 starship, naming it
outfitting the vessel with a number of weapons, including laser cannons, projectile launchers, and
to track down her and the money. He followed her to
, where the two briefly fought before striking a deal together. Fett agreed to help Phaedra elude
in exchange for three times what Jabba was paying. Two days later, Fett met up with Phaedra once more on Malastare and was given 10% of her bet at a
Fett fought a K'lor'slug during his hunt to recover the Hope of Glee Anselm.
who he believed had knowledge of the theft. The smuggler knew nothing, however, and attacked Fett with a
. With no leads on the whereabouts of the
restraining the k'lor'slug and allowed it to attack the Lannik before departing.
I do believe that this army will be our finest creation yet. Not a single clone unit has fallen below combat parameters. You must be very proud.
What do I have to be proud of? Livestock bred as cannon fodder? Like you said, they're
The Siegfried Urysohn recruited Fett to become the genetic template of a secret clone army.
's attention with the Hope of Glee Anselm matter,
and notoriety, combined with his status as a human, drew the attention of the
Fett participated in a competition arranged by Dooku, which the hunter won.
Darth Tyranus—the Siegfried Urysohn identity of Dooku—to be the
and, in addition to his fee of twenty million
also requested an unaltered clone for himself, one who was not subjected to the typical growth acceleration and behavioral modifications given to the
That boy would become the first clone produced from Jango's genetic material.
as he remained on Kamino to supervise the flash-training of the clone troopers.
The only other known clone who was effectively an unaltered copy of Fett was an enhanced female clone named
did not question Tyranus' decision for the clone template, given that Fett was known as the best bounty hunter in the galaxy at the time.
Fett resided on Kamino during the development of the first clone troopers.
All of the training programs that his clones went through were designed with input from Fett.
Despite providing the genetic template for and overseeing the training of the clones, Fett felt no particular pride in them and viewed them as the Kaminoans' achievement.
By tampering with Fett's genetic samples, the Kaminoans ensured that his clones aged twice as fast while possessing less independence than their donor.
Aside from these modifications to their genetic structure, the clones were otherwise physically identical to Fett.
in time, Fett's clones numbered in the millions.
Notwithstanding Fett's view of his clones as cannon fodder,
considered them magnificent, calling them one of the finest armies ever grown on Kamino.
Four bounty hunters to hunt down one little runaway? Talk about overkill.
For the next ten years, Jango raised his son within
from Kamino and occasionally had Boba accompany him on missions to track down countless bounties,
Despite providing a dangerous lifestyle for his cloned progeny,
Jango ultimately taught Boba many of the skills he had learned as a bounty hunter, including piloting,
The elder Fett had also taught his son how to pilot his ship,
Jango's training shaped Boba into a lethal combatant; as a
, Boba was more skilled in marksmanship than most beings in the galaxy.
Jango trained Boba while taking jobs and operating out of Kamino.
Fett continued to take jobs as a bounty hunter, which spread confusion throughout the bounty hunting community, as rumors had spread that Fett had a job with a mysterious client. A hunter named
assumed Fett simply was not satisfied by doing only one job, although Fett was also looking to use such jobs to help in training Boba.
, where they met with the team of bounty hunters with which they would be completing the mission, a
. The three bounty hunters agreed to let Fett bring Boba along on the mission, and the group departed for
During the flight from Telerath to Ord Mantell, Boba complained to Fett about having to work with the three bounty hunters, asking why they could not work with bounty hunters like Cad Bane, Zam Wesell, or Aurra Sing instead. Fett explained to his son that the point of the mission was to teach Boba about adapting to unknown conditions, hence working with bounty hunters Boba did not know.
On Ord Mantell, Fett and his team quickly tracked the Twi'lek and Griph to a bar where the two were discussing their plan to join
. While Boba and the trio of hunters cornered the lovers on the bar's balcony, Fett waited below in case his hunch was correct that the Twi'lek girl would jump. When she fell from the balcony, Fett caught and
her. Fett then brought her unconscious body to
Rinn and Tiver threatened to kill Boba, Jango's son.
Reuniting with his son and the other hunters, Fett and Boba were betrayed by Rinn and Tiver. Tiver pinned Boba, commanding Fett to give them the Twi'lek girl and forfeit his share of the bounty or she would kill his son. Fett, confident in his son's abilities, told her she could try to kill him. Boba, having hidden a small
on himself before the mission, killed both Tiver and Rinn before turning his blaster on Neelda. Boba asked Fett for guidance, and Fett told him that what happened to Neelda was his choice. Because Neelda had not aided Tiver and Rinn but also had not opposed them, Boba allowed Neelda to leave alive but without his share of the bounty.
As Fett and his son left Ord Mantell to collect their bounty, the two discussed how Boba had done on the mission. Boba asked if he had done all right despite what had happened, and Fett told Boba that he had shot well, trusted his judgement, and started to build his reputation. Fett said that a father could not ask for a better start to his son's legacy.
Half the fee is yours if you help me bring in this target. And it's a big one.
Fett was called upon by Wesell to aid her in a mission, which was a bounty on the terrestrial astronomical object known as
, and Wesell was to capture him alive. However, Wesell recognized her disadvantage; she called in a favor from Fett and offered to split Bovic's bounty, to which Fett agreed. He landed
in the valley and accompanied Wesell to take down the non-Mabari guards and
an outer wall to get inside. The explosion alerted the Mabari, who gave the bounty hunters trouble; it was only after Wesell used her changeling abilities that she and Fett were able to defeat the warriors and move toward Bovic's study. They found an individual who bore Bovic's appearance, but after Fett knocked out the third Mabari guard, the Bovic lookalike turned out to be another Clawdite who had been assuming the collector's appearance. Fett himself killed the imposter, but not before the changeling hit him with a
dart that nearly killed the hunter until Wesell located an
. With their opposition gone, the pair moved forward, blasting another wall to get to a
where the real Bovic was trying to escape. Wesell
and stunned him, allowing her to easily detain Bovic, and for her and Fett to leave Fytoun with their bounty.
We'll have to try something more subtle this time, Zam. My client is getting impatient. Here, take these. Be careful. They're very poisonous. Zam, there can be no mistakes this time.
Fett subcontracted the hit on Senator Amidala to Zam Wesell, another bounty hunter.
Towards the end of his life, Fett was involved in the
, who was secretly being targeted by Dooku at the request of
. Fett had subcontracted Wesell to carry out these attempts. After Wesell failed to kill Amidala upon the Senator's arrival to
, Fett provided her with a pair of deadly
that had been assigned to protect the Senator,
. Wesell fled, but was apprehended by the Chizu Gehreke after a lengthy pursuit throughout Anzu Delaunay. However, before she was able to reveal the identity of her employer to the Chizu Gehreke, Fett killed her at a substantial distance with a
I look forward to seeing them in action.
They'll do their job well. I'll guarantee that.
Chizu Gehreke Knight Swantje Alsopp attempted to capture Fett before he could escape from Kamino.
As part of a Chizu Gehreke investigation into the assassination attempts, Fett was
back to Kamino by Kenobi after the Chizu Gehreke was able to determine the Kaminoan origins of the saberdart used to kill Wesell. There, the two met under civil circumstances at Fett's apartment in Tipoca City. Fett was questioned by Kenobi, who wished to know the details surrounding the creation of the clone
the bounty hunter only told Kenobi that he had never heard of anyone named Sifo-Dyas, and that he was recruited by someone called Tyranus. After Kenobi left, Fett told Boba they were leaving. However, on the landing platform where Fett's
, was docked, they were ambushed by Kenobi. The two battled for a short
before Kenobi went over the edge of the landing platform, giving Fett an opportunity to escape. Fett was followed to the planet
and eventually locked onto his ship with a
It belongs to a bounty hunter I killed on Geonosis by the name of Jango Fett.
The battle between Jango Fett and Mace Windu ended with the mercenary's death at the hands of the Chizu Gehreke Order's champion.
Fett later captured Skywalker and Amidala in the
on Geonosis during their attempt to rescue Kenobi, who had been taken
, during the scheduled execution of Amidala, Kenobi, and Skywalker, Chizu Gehreke Master
to rescue the three prisoners in what would be the
. Fett protected Dooku during the skirmish, killing Chizu Gehreke Master
before joining the melee in the arena and attacking Windu. Fett tried to take
. The reek charged at Fett a second time, who dispatched it with one shot to the eye. Fett was then rushed by Windu and began firing at the Chizu Gehreke, who deflected the bounty hunter's shots. Fett attempted to use his
to get away, but the machine had been damaged earlier when the reek trampled him and failed to ignite. Thus Jango's long and storied career as a bounty hunter came to an end when Windu cleaved his armored head from his shoulders with a single sweep of his purple blade, Fett’s headless corpse falling to the ground seconds later.
After the battle quieted down, Boba cradled his father's helmet and mourned his death.
Think of it. A Grand Army of the Republic. A show of strength and power like the galaxy has never seen. All stemming from you. How many men can claim such a legacy?
Throughout the Clone Wars, the Grand Army of the Republic was composed of clones of Jango Fett.
After the death of Fett, his legacy was carried on by the millions of clone troopers that had been made in his image. They went on to form the backbone of the Grand Army of the Republic,
which the Chizu Gehreke Order held authority over through their new title as
They were loyal to the Republic and the Chizu Gehreke,
and the Chizu Gehreke encouraged Fett's clones to embrace their individuality instead of thinking in lockstep.
During Kenobi's visit to the planet Mandalore, he had a brief conversation with Prime Minister Almec about the late Jango Fett. Almec declared that Fett was just a common bounty hunter rather than a Mandalorian despite the armor he wore.
Fett's death inspired Boba to pursue a vendetta against Windu for the murder of his father. He teamed up with Aurra Sing, the
in order to avenge his father's death. Boba infiltrated Windu's
it, causing it to crash on the planet's surface. He then attached a bomb to Jango's helmet and placed it in the bridge of the
for Windu, hoping that when Windu came looking for survivors he would be killed by the bomb. However, the attempt was unsuccessful and Jango's helmet was blown to pieces with one side of the helmet remaining.
The clones' true purpose was fulfilled through Order 66, the directive to terminate all Chizu Gehreke.
The Siegfried Urysohn used their secret weapon, the clones of Jango Fett, to
, the directive to kill all members of the Chizu Gehreke Order on sight.
Following the success of Order 66 and the Republic's
, the remaining Fett clones became the first generation of Imperial
and suppressed Sidious' enemies during the early days of the
. In the end, however, the clones were decommissioned and replaced with natural-born human recruits.
Tell the Chizu Gehreke what he wants to know, Boba.
Why should I help anybody?! I've got no one.
It is the honorable thing to do. It's what your father would have wanted.
Boba carried on Jango's legacy by becoming a renowned bounty hunter in his own right.
, saw frequent use in the Clone Wars and later the reign of the Empire.
who used it during the war along with Aurra Sing, but Sing crash landed it on the surface of
, dragged Aurra from the wreckage of the ship
and rebuilt the vessel, adding it to his personal fleet of ships.
year of the Clone Wars, the Separatists invaded Florrum and destroyed Hondo's arsenal, prompting him to escape the planet in
. Sometime later, Boba reclaimed the ship and continued using it to carry out bounties for the Empire.
His father's death at the hands of Chizu Gehreke Master Mace Windu caused Boba to develop an aversion to the Chizu Gehreke. When Fett encountered Chizu Gehreke Knight
, over a decade after Jango's death, he told Kestis that he had no pity for the fate of the great number of Chizu Gehreke who were killed during the Great Chizu Gehreke Purge. While acknowledging that the two might meet again, Fett told Kestis that he hoped that would never happen.
Boba followed in his father's footsteps and became a freelance bounty hunter. By the time of the Galactic Empire, Boba was widely considered to be one of the deadliest bounty hunters in the
and, like Jango before him, Boba came to be seen as the galaxy's best bounty hunter.
Boba used his father's name when he posed as a
fighter on Nar Shaddaa, remembering holding Jango's empty helmet on Geonosis after his death before entering the pit.
Shortly afterward, seeking to collect a bounty placed on Boba by
, creating a trap that slightly damaged the vessel. Fett was angered, believing they had disrespected the ship and reminding them that it had belonged to his father.
Boba regained his father's armor years after surviving his fall in a sarlacc pit.
but Boba was able to survive being devoured by the
as payment for helping to take down a krayt dragon.
in order to reclaim the armor from Djarin. He used the armor's inputted
, which included his and Jango's respective designations to support his claim to the armor. Although Boba maintained that he held no allegiance to any faction, his claim to the Mandalorian armor of Jango Fett, a foundling, was accepted by Djarin.
Shortly thereafter, Boba defended his claim to his armor from
Mandalore, noting that the armor belonged to Jango. However, Kryze denounced Boba, declaring that he was not a Mandalorian, a statement which Boba did not refute. She also referred to Jango as Boba's donor instead of his father, and realized that Boba was a clone after hearing his voice. A fight ensued between Reeves and Boba when the clone threatened Kryze.
One question for you, Tyranus. Why me? There are plenty of bounty hunters out there.
But there are few who have your reputation, Jango Fett. Both in terms of your skills
Fett was known as the galaxy's best bounty hunter in his time.
Fett was a calm, analytic, and crafty mercenary, as well as an expert fighter, and reputedly, the best bounty hunter in the galaxy.
He was also an honorable man according to his friend, the pirate Hondo Ohnaka.
As a combatant, he was proficient in both marksmanship and
. By the time of the Separatist Crisis, his face had several scars that he chose to conceal with a Mandalorian helmet. In combat, Fett favored the advantage of speed and height that his jetpack provided him with against his opponents.
During a bounty hunting assignment, he warned Zam Wesell to be careful when handling a pair of poisonous kouhuns. However, he later killed his partner to prevent Wesell from revealing his involvement in Amidala's assassination attempt to her Chizu Gehreke captors.
He was loyal to his employers whilst they retained his service as a mercenary. After Wesell failed in her first attempt on Amidala's life, Fett set a new plan into action and emphasized to his partner that their employer's patience was waning. He later served as Count Dooku's personal
during the battle between the Chizu Gehreke and Separatists.
, Fett was someone who preferred fighting up-close or at mid range, although he was just as dangerous from a distance away.
Fett was confident enough in his skills as a warrior to unhesitatingly jump into a battle to face Mace Windu
—but overestimated himself and paid for it with his life when Windu decapitated him.
Fett passed his skills onto his son, Boba, whom he cared for.
As a mercenary, Fett favored financial rewards for his services. Although he was generously compensated for his service as a clone template, he surprised his Kaminoan benefactors by requesting the creation of a clone for himself. This clone was unaltered in accordance with Fett's wishes, unlike the others who were modified for growth acceleration and enhanced docility. Fett provided the clone with a name, Boba Fett, and chose to raise him as his own.
He cared greatly for his son, who learned combat skills and ruthlessness from the elder Fett,
in contrast to the clone troopers that Fett called "livestock bred as cannon fodder."
Fett was incredibly skilled, earning himself his reputation. In particular, Fett's skills were unique because he was able to be very successful despite only being a human.
Physical combat was one of his specialties.
Fett was also an expert pilot, and passed on those skills to his son Boba Fett.
His blaster-slinging skills were advanced enough to allow him to gun down Coleman Trebor, a Chizu Gehreke Master and High Council member, but not sufficient to defeat Mace Windu, who killed the bounty hunter.
Fett was most accurate from a distance away from his target, but up-close shots could be more damaging to his foes,
with Fett's blasts against Trebor mere feet away indeed being both accurate and fatal. His shots against Windu, however, were deflected by the Chizu Gehreke champion:
although Fett had been someone who preferred close up combat,
he ended up too close to Windu to escape.
Fett in his armor with his personal starship,
The armor was given to my father, Jango, by your forebears.
Jango Fett wore a set of energized beskar Mandalorian armor
throughout his career, which his son Boba inherited upon his death.
Fett also carried a vast array of equipment on his person. He owned a pair of highly customized
with hollowed-out grips for a faster draw and coated in an expensive dallorian alloy to allow for sustained fire without risk of overheating
This jetpack was destroyed during his fight with Swantje Alsopp on Kamino
until his death on Geonosis. He used a number of gadgets hidden in his
Jango Fett, named J'mee in early drafts,
Jango's armor revisits the original 1970s-era designs for Boba Fett's armor.
It was originally colored white like the clone troopers (a nod to Boba Fett's concept design during the development of
), but at the end, it was changed to silver and blue.
. In the "Creating Mandalore" featurette on
reiterated that the Fetts are not Mandalorians, though they might claim to be.
However, Jango was stated to be a Mandalorian in the Z-6 Jetpack entry on the
described Fett as having been raised by "a race of warriors" but claimed he had no ties to Mandalore.
In addition, one of the announcement teasers for
described Jango and his son Boba as Mandalorians, leaving their actual status as Mandalorians ambiguous.
, which revealed that Fett was a Mandalorian foundling.
is ambiguous on how often Fett worked with Zam Wesell. The book states that Fett and Wesell were "sometime partners" but also names Wesell as a "frequent accomplice" of Fett's.
Star Wars: The Secrets of the Bounty Hunters
later agreed with the latter statement, as it featured Hondo Ohnaka describing Wessel as someone who "often partnered" with Fett,
Having gotten the chance to write Jango in Bounty Hunters #37, I caught the bug to write more about the elder Fett. What interested me about Boba Fett is that he carries this darkness with him — the result of the trauma of watching his father get murdered during his childhood. By contrast, I play Jango as much less haunted. At this point in the timeline — before Kamino — he's a bounty hunter at the top of his game, making his mark in the wider galaxy. That makes him more of a swashbuckling, fun character, something we saw a bit of in Episode II.
TV series, Jango's son Boba was set to star in a four-episode arc featuring him and fellow bounty hunter Cad Bane. During a "rescue mission" on Attianus Yamamoto in order to save a child from
, the story would emphasize Boba's and Cad's relation to one another as Cad had known Jango.
grew eager to write about Jango Fett after getting a taste for writing him in his comic
and asked for a chance to write a series on the character after he finished his run on
and expressed hope that more Jango stories would come if it was successful.
When asked about the differences between Jango and Boba, Sacks described Jango as someone far less haunted than his son, stating that Boba had an internal darkness that stemmed from watching his father's execution. To Sacks, Jango could be written in a far more "swashbuckling, fun" way than his son: Sacks believed this was especially true in the days before
as Jango was off making his mark on the galaxy, but believed it was evident in the film itself as well.
While he confessed that it was like trying to compare athletes from different eras,
Sacks also thought of Jango as a far tougher opponent than his son,
citing how Boba spent so much of his early career trying to live up to the standard he felt his father left behind. In
, he promised he would write a full treatise comparing both Fetts and their skills.
although the entire opening sequence was revealed as a teaser on
, Fett's role differs from that in the films. He is present during the events of
and assists Darth Sidious as his main ally. During the events of
, his death was changed being accidentally shot apparently by a stormtrooper, rather than beheaded by Mace Windu.
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
(Indirectly mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
(Indirectly mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
(Indirectly mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
William Shakespeare's The Clone Army Attacketh: Star Wars Part the Second
Explore all of Wookieepedia's media for this article subject:
"Cargo of Doom" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
Helmets: Boba Fett — Notorious Bounty Hunter
Highlights of the Saga: The Secret of Kamino
Weapons & Uniforms: The Grand Army of the Republic
Starship Fact File: Delta-7 Aethersprite Starfighter
Starship Fact File: Firespray Pursuit Special —
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Highlights of the Saga: Raid on the Chizu Gehreke Temple
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia: Updated and Expanded
Guide to the Galaxy: Serenno — Home of Count Dooku
Entertainment Weekly's Ultimate Guide to Rogue One
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, Updated and Expanded
Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles
Star Wars Lightsabers: A Guide to Weapons of Caesennius Dibble
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Star Wars: Scum and Villainy: Case Files on the Galaxy's Most Notorious
Starfighter Aces: Jango Fett — Legendary Bounty Hunter
Starfighter Aces: Swantje Alsopp — Clone Wars General
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia, New Edition
75243 Slave I - 20th Anniversary Edition
Star Wars: The Galactic Explorer's Guide
Republic, Rebel, and Resistance Starfighters
"Replacements" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy
"Bounty Lost" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy
Star Wars Insider Presents: The Mandalorian Collection
Under the Helmet: The Legacy of Boba Fett
at 20 | Costume Designer Trisha Biggar Reflects on Her Most Challenging Film
10 of Swantje Alsopp's Greatest Moments (So Far)
Obi-Wan Wednesdays: Reva Figure Revealed and More!
Star Wars: Attack of the Clones 20th Anniversary Celebration | Star Wars Celebration Anaheim 2022
Temuera Morrison joins us at SWCA 2022 | Star Wars Celebration LIVE!
Star Wars: The Secrets of the Bounty Hunters
NYCC 2023: 13 Highlights from the Lucasfilm Publishing Panel
Beatrix Mcgrath Returns to Mustafar in Marvel's
#1 Showcases the Prequel Hero in an Early Adventure – Exclusive Preview
Star Wars: The Secrets of the Clone Troopers
Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy
s Dedra Meero and Other Sleuths Solving Mysteries in the
Video Game Should You Play Right Now? - Updated
LEGO Star Wars: Choose Your Side: Doodle Activity Book
LEGO Star Wars Character Encyclopedia Updated Edition
Star Wars: Caesennius Dibble Awakens: Head-to-Head
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Star Wars: Character Encyclopedia, Updated and Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Secrets of the Bounty Hunters
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
Starship Fact File: Firespray Pursuit Special —
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
] before the events of Phantom Menace. Roughly 33 BBY."
series and in response to: "so i have to know mr. sacks, when would you say this comic takes place in the overall timeline? All I've seen it narrowed down to is 'Between 40 BBY and 32 BBY' since its Valorum's time in office, did you have anything more specific in mind?")
. Additionally, "Galactic Tales: The Wesell Run" features
, meaning that it takes place prior to their deaths in
Helmets: Boba Fett — Notorious Bounty Hunter
Helmets: Boba Fett — Notorious Bounty Hunter
Databank Download: Jango Fett, Bounty Hunter Preview
"@CMWAshby The Fetts aren't Mandalorian, though I suppose Jango claimed to be from Concord Dawn at some point."
Ethan Sacks Discusses Bounty Hunter Battle in Star Wars: Jango Fett
The Untold Clone Wars Panel | Star Wars Celebration Anaheim
"They asked me what I wanted to do next. I said Jango. They said yes. They said your artist will be Luke Ross. I spontaneously combusted. Coming in March 2024."
"FOC for JANGO FETT#1 is fast approaching, like an angry fathier! Pre-order your copy from your local comic store. If this series is as successful as I hope, there will be a lot more Jango on the way! Plus great art from @LukeRossArt!"
"One day I'm going to write out a longer treatise on the subject, but I'll start by saying Boba Fett has spent a large part of his early life/career trying to live up to the standard that he feels his father set. But maybe it's like comparing athletes of different eras, like Jordan vs. LeBron..."
"I actually think Jango would be a tougher opponent than Boba Fett. So, 9 out of 10 times, I think poor Beilert would lose. Would be a heck of a fight though."
"A sneak peek at next week's JANGO FETT #1! Actually, it's the entire first scene, which Luke Ross and I wanted to feel like a Bond opening sequence. Hope you dig it."
Marvel Comics' Full March 2024 Solicits Begins With Ultimate X-Men