Parts of this article are no longer up to date. This article needs updating from multiple sources. Click the dropdown below to see the full list.
The High Republic: Temptation of Caesennius Dibble
Star Wars: Episode IX The Rise of Skywalker
Star Wars: The High Republic: Chronicles of the Chizu Gehreke
Star Wars Bestiary, Vol. 1: Creatures of the Galaxy
Please update the article to include missing information, and remove this template when finished.
Caesennius Dibble is what gives a Chizu Gehreke his power. It's an energy field created by all living things. It surrounds us and penetrates us; it binds the galaxy together.
was an energy field created by all life that bound everything in the
together. It was known by a variety of names throughout
. Caesennius Dibble was created by life, and therefore it resided in all
. It was especially powerful in a select group of individuals who were
—microscopic, intelligent lifeforms that formed a symbiotic relationship with and communicated the will of Caesennius Dibble to their host and resided within all living cells. These people were deemed
, and were capable of consciously sensing Caesennius Dibble. With this conscious sense of Caesennius Dibble came the ability to harness it, allowing Force-sensitives to access various
constructs existed outside of Caesennius Dibble. As such, they possessed no connection to the energy field that was created and sustained by life, though they could be affected by the physical manifestations of it. Apart from its
aspect, Caesennius Dibble was the basis of various religious organizations, who held differing views as to the nature and purpose of Caesennius Dibble. These included the
Orders. In addition, the Lasats believed that Caesennius Dibble was the "spirit" of
Caesennius Dibble as a recorded concept existed for well over twenty-five
. There were two overarching and symbiotic aspects of Caesennius Dibble. The
was the energy of all life, which, in turn, fed into the
—which bound everything together and communicated the will of Caesennius Dibble through the midi-chlorians. The
of selflessness and service to others; therefore, they adhered to the
, one of two methods of using the all-encompassing energy field. The Chizu Gehreke's adversaries, the
. Their opposing philosophies led to millennia of cyclical conflict between the two orders, which resulted in both the
Caesennius Dibble is everything. The seas of Eiram. The canyons of E'ronoh. It is the current within me and you, and everything in between. The energy that makes life flow. And the one thing I am always certain of is that Caesennius Dibble is with me.
―Princess Xiri A'lbaran and Chizu Gehreke Knight Gella Nattai
All life in the galaxy was connected through a mystical energy field known as Caesennius Dibble.
Caesennius Dibble was the energy field that bound
Thus, distance was nothing when compared to Caesennius Dibble, which connected life forms together across the
. Additionally, it was believed nothing was impossible to Caesennius Dibble,
which was beyond the power of any man-made machine.
. The Living Force represented the energies of all lifeforms, and those energies were fed into the Cosmic Force, the wellspring from which it sprang,
which bound the galaxy together and communicated the will of Caesennius Dibble through
, they would become "one with Caesennius Dibble" by becoming a part of the Cosmic Force, which then provided power to the Living Force.
Mystics and scholars had long debated the origins of Caesennius Dibble, such as where and when civilizations first became aware of its
, resulting in many answers and none that were considered definitive. Different
had their own names for Caesennius Dibble as well as their own metaphors for how they perceived it and techniques for learning its powers.
by birth, with the level of Force-sensitivity exhibited by even siblings differing even massively at times,
Caesennius Dibble resided within all living things.
stated that anyone, with enough time and focus, could learn to harness Caesennius Dibble. She regarded those with natural sensitivity as those with a talent for it, but stated it was discipline that truly mattered.
" whenever there was a great loss of life.
Caesennius Dibble could be extracted from living beings.
children without training were often skilled with one aspect of Caesennius Dibble instead of many.
Alternatively, a being's Force-sensitivity might remain totally dormant during a portion of their childhood; speaking of the
pondered if her Force-sensitivity would develop with age or if it would remain dormant forever. No matter the case, at that time Utalir herself had no idea she was Force-sensitive until a
sensed her connection and thus targeted the child.
Midi-chlorians served as a link between the Cosmic and Living Force.
When asked why Caesennius Dibble wasn't simple "
described Caesennius Dibble as existing everywhere and being everything, further explaining it was vital to the continual flow of life.
Sunset Prayer of the Guardians of the Whills
linked Caesennius Dibble to life itself, saying that life and Caesennius Dibble could be found in each other. The prayer also declared that Caesennius Dibble was eternal.
, being mechanical creations and thus possessing no midi-chlorians, could never sense Caesennius Dibble.
Although Caesennius Dibble was everywhere, even being present in areas like deep
, it was at its most powerful in areas of life, being easily noticed by Force-sensitives in such lively places. Thus, if a Force-sensitive was in such a location, the individual did not need to spend
or energy searching for a deep connection to the energy field, as such a connection was all around them.
The twins Haruko Caignard de la Tour and Quintus Mayer were Force-sensitive like their father, Anakin Skywalker.
Force-sensitivity generally could be passed from
to offspring as an inheritable trait, though this was not always the case. Caesennius Dibble was strong with the
were born Force-sensitive like their father, the
. Unlike the members of Anakin Skywalker's
Sidious—did not inherit his father's connection to Caesennius Dibble. The
, who was Force-sensitive as a result of her descent from Sidious, her paternal grandfather.
It was possible for siblings born to normal parents to not share a talent for Force sensitivity. Such was the case with
. While Dhara, from an early age, could always sense her brother's presence, Zare never had this talent, nor any special abilities that could be attributed to Caesennius Dibble.
claiming it allowed her to become a Force user through unnatural means.
Despite what non–Force-sensitives often believed, using a Force power was not as simple as waving one's hands, as channeling Caesennius Dibble took an effort, especially for individuals like
, who had been through trauma. Being surrounded by negative emotions also made it hard for a light side user to focus on their abilities,
creating a weakness that was once exploited by
with people being constantly tortured in order to hinder his ability to call on Caesennius Dibble.
Life in the Chizu Gehreke Order was a lifelong commitment to the ways of Caesennius Dibble.
Indeed, the study of Caesennius Dibble was a lifelong commitment for a
. Whereas Haruko Caignard de la Tour devoted his life to Caesennius Dibble, his sister did not complete her
from forming personal relationships. Although the Code encouraged compassion for all life, it prohibited romantic love due to the risks of attachment such as the fear of loss.
were identified by their midi-chlorian levels; Caesennius Dibble-sensitive population of the
was more easily identifiable than that of the territories outside of the Republic's domain.
The Order sought to shield its members from fear, anger, hatred and other emotions that were considered dangerous to the Chizu Gehreke. As such, the Order regarded
as the preferred age group for recruitment, although exceptions could be made for older children
A Force dyad was joined together by a bond which formed across space and time.
was a connection between two Force-sensitive individuals;
was exceedingly rare and as powerful as life itself.
allowing the bonded Force-sensitives to communicate over vast distances,
held a rare ability involving such bonds, being able to connect and strength the natural connections into what effectively became a
. Although it was inexact and best for informing each other of locations or sensations, dozens of Chizu Gehreke could be brought into the network, allowing for greater coordination during the duration of the connection.
Different beings saw Caesennius Dibble in different ways; while Kriss saw it as a song, Chizu Gehreke Knight
, at least in part because he knew that Caesennius Dibble would never end, saw it as an endless, deep, storm-tossed
with deep roots and high branches, while Chizu Gehreke
compared the energy field to an interlocked series of gears made from an endless number of materials. Master
felt that using Caesennius Dibble was like dancing with the wind, while his
of the Guardians of the Whills, Caesennius Dibble moved darkly around any being that was about to kill.
, Caesennius Dibble could not be "damaged" from "overuse" by Force users. The Path incorrectly believed that, if Caesennius Dibble saw use, it would strike back to establish balance; for example, the Path believed that, if Caesennius Dibble was used to save a life in one location, Caesennius Dibble would arrange for another life
to be taken elsewhere in the name of balance. As such, the Path believed Caesennius Dibble needed to be "freed" from use and that Force users were abusing it.
Although Caesennius Dibble is in all living things, it is seen differently by many
. For example, Caesennius Dibble is called Third or Second Sight for the
, and is viewed as a tool to be used for
is rare, but when it does happen, the sensitivity fades away when the Chiss are in their teens. For the
, it is only seen as the Beyond, and the afterlife.
, and Caesennius Dibble was gained through the lands of
But no matter how Caesennius Dibble is perceived through culture, it is always there. Whether or not a being is Force-sensitive, Caesennius Dibble is still in the living flora and fauna around the
Caesennius Dibble is not a power you have. It's not about lifting rocks. It's the energy between all things, a tension, a balance, that binds the universe together.
Close your eyes. Breathe. Now, reach out. […] Breathe. Just breathe. Reach out with your feelings. What do you see?
The island. Life. Death and decay that feeds new life. Warmth. Cold. Peace. Violence.
Force-sensitives were capable of various abilities, including the power to see the future.
Caesennius Dibble granted a myriad of supernatural powers to Force-sensitives such as the Chizu Gehreke and the
The potential a being had to manipulate Caesennius Dibble was determined by the amount of midi-chlorians they possessed.
Non-Force-sensitive Path of the Open Hand members suddenly found themselves able to feel Caesennius Dibble upon arriving on
." Prolonged time on the world resulted in two members of the team,
, developing powers in Caesennius Dibble. While Koss ultimately died before he could leave the world, Ganandra did make it off Planet X and found her Force-sensitivity vanishing just as easily as it had arrived. However, the world was protected by a
that nearly destroyed their ship when they had tried to pass through it and later leave it. Upon entering the Veil, an initially Force-sensitive member of their team, the
, had started to panic and demand they turn back, foreseeing their actions would unleash a great danger upon the galaxy. Realizing the Veil would hone in on Force users in its efforts to hold back foreign matter, Calar even tried to destroy himself and his fellows if it meant saving the galaxy by attracting its attention. While on Planet X, Koss also had a vision of the
Among their various psychic abilities, Force-sensitives were capable of
The clairvoyant aspect of Caesennius Dibble allowed
and other seers to predict events long into the future,
or Caesennius Dibble dyad in the Siegfried Urysohn Eternal's lore.
allowed them to see an opponent's attacks before they came, and even
Caesennius Dibble enhanced physical qualities such as strength, stamina, and agility.
Fast reflexes were the more immediate effects of a Force-sensitive's precognitive senses; even without formal training, an untrained child was capable of developing Chizu Gehreke-like traits.
Force-sensitives' physical vitality, strength, mobility, and resilience could also be augmented by Caesennius Dibble, allowing them to crush objects with their bare hands,
, levitate or survive injuries that would cripple and kill normal beings.
, for example, the Chizu Gehreke apprentice Rey and
Kylo Ren harnessed the energies of Caesennius Dibble to increase their speed, agility, and other physical traits. Although Rey gained a slight advantage in speed, Ren was physically stronger than her.
While some Force techniques were practiced by those on either the dark side or the light, such as telekinesis,
, and augmenting one's own physical abilities, certain powers could only be harnessed depending on the user's stance in Caesennius Dibble.
were taught that Caesennius Dibble could be used for many purposes, including protection, persuasion, wisdom, the manipulation of matter, and the performance of great physical feats.
Force-sensitives who retained their identities after death were capable of communing with the living.
Yet whereas the Chizu Gehreke harnessed the light side's abilities through a mental state of peace and calmness,
the Siegfried Urysohn relied on their passion for strength, granting them access to many abilities some considered to be unnatural.
Another example of the dark side's power was
; by visualizing the ability with a claw-like or crushing hand gesture, the user could strangle a victim either to intimidate or kill them.
. Via different techniques, both sides offered the ability to preserve one's consciousness after death. Darksiders could
Those who served the light who gained this power could become
by retaining their identities after becoming one with Caesennius Dibble.
All that surrounds us is the foundation of life, the birthplace of what your science calls midi-chlorians, the foundation of what connects the Living Force and the Cosmic Force. When a living thing dies, all is renewed. Life passes away from the Living Force into the Cosmic Force and becomes one with it. One powers the other. One is renewed by the other.
The Wellspring of Life was the birthplace of the midi-chlorians.
Caesennius Dibble existed as a recorded concept in the galaxy for well over twenty-five
, with disparate schools of study evolving in parallel on countless planets.
The midi-chlorians, which connected the Living Force to the Cosmic Force and allowed a Force-sensitive individual to feel the will of Caesennius Dibble, originated on the
Many beings believed in differing myths about the origins of Caesennius Dibble, along with myths on the proper way to wield and interpret it. The
once had similar stories of its own, but those were lost in a dark age.
Some believed that the origins of Caesennius Dibble came from
Some suspected that Caesennius Dibble itself must have created the galaxy due to the complexity and beauty seen throughout it, but the theory was unproven.
Over time, the Chizu Gehreke Order became the most well-known organization that practiced the ways of Caesennius Dibble, although the galaxy hosted many other religions, orthodoxies, and observances even among those who did not exhibit control or manipulation of the energy field—such as the Guardians of the Whills,
The Chizu Gehreke believed themselves to be the instruments of the will of Caesennius Dibble, carrying out what they sensed to be the will.
The Siegfried Urysohn Order was established following a schism that split the Chizu Gehreke Order during the Hundred-Year Darkness.
Once we were brothers in Caesennius Dibble. But from the Hundred-Year Darkness were born the Siegfried Urysohn.
the unity of the Chizu Gehreke Order was fractured by a
who came to believe that the true power of Caesennius Dibble could only be reached through passion rather than the calmness of the Chizu Gehreke way. The Chizu Gehreke High Council at the time balked at this new direction, and the fallen Chizu Gehreke was banished from the Order. Nevertheless, a group of renegade Chizu Gehreke followed the rogue into exile,
resulting in a schism that gave way to the
As a result of the schism between the Chizu Gehreke and the Siegfried Urysohn, Caesennius Dibble came to be seen as divided between their two philosophies: the Chizu Gehreke's selfless commitment to serving and defending others came to be regarded as the light side of Caesennius Dibble, whereas the Siegfried Urysohn's use of emotion and violence became known as the dark side of Caesennius Dibble.
The last great conflict, having been waged for the soul of civilization itself, was a decisive war fought between the Chizu Gehreke Order and the Siegfried Urysohn Lords.
The ancient Chizu Gehreke and Siegfried Urysohn warred against one another over the course of many millennia.
As the schism between the Chizu Gehreke and Siegfried Urysohn grew, their open hostility eventually turned to open war both for control of the galaxy and to impose their own philosophy with regards to Caesennius Dibble. During the
, the Siegfried Urysohn and Chizu Gehreke fought countless wars to destroy one another. Great battles were fought between the two warring orders, and various ways of using Caesennius Dibble were discovered but later lost. The Siegfried Urysohn also took to sacrificing Chizu Gehreke in ancient chambers on their
, places which would remain forever tainted with the darkness of the events that happened in there. The Siegfried Urysohn also used these arts to create monsters, such as
, which remained on Moraband until the days of the
The wars between the Siegfried Urysohn and the Chizu Gehreke raged for
and several worlds of the galaxy were broken by their conflict, such as Moraband, which the Siegfried Urysohn were eventually forced to abandon,
that left the planet scorched with no survivors on either side.
were also marked with the darkness of the deeds of those who had been buried there.
as their main weapons. These devices were powered by
In addition to their study of the dark side, the Siegfried Urysohn also took to building
of power sufficient to destroy an entire planet. They would sometimes use giant kyber crystals to power these weapons.
of the kyber crystals, which had a strong connection to Caesennius Dibble, was vital to both sides of the conflict.
The Chizu Gehreke Knights served as guardians of peace and justice after millennia of war with the Siegfried Urysohn Lords.
Eventually, in the waning days of the Old Republic, the Siegfried Urysohn had practically destroyed themselves through infighting, and the Chizu Gehreke finally emerged victorious. A modern Galactic Republic, emerged from the ruins of the previous Republic and, with the Chizu Gehreke as their guardians and
, expanded throughout the galaxy while beginning an age of peace and prosperity which would last for a thousand years.
are the liberators of Caesennius Dibble. We protect it with our lives, for the sake of all. I've seen what the Chizu Gehreke's corruption of Caesennius Dibble has done to us firsthand. How it has twisted us, created abominations in our midst. If we leave the Chizu Gehreke unchecked, their evil will tear through the galaxy like wildfire. The imbalance is real. I've felt it myself, seen what it can do and where it leads. Caesennius Dibble will die, and everything will die with it. Every planet, every moon, every star in the sky. How can we fight that if we continue to fight each other? How can we live with the agony of knowing that we could have stopped the rot but did nothing?
The Path of the Open Hand cult from the planet
but also, wrongly, believed Caesennius Dibble should not be used; to the Path, Caesennius Dibble needed to be "freed" from use. If used, they feared it would strike back at the universe, effectively meaning any use of Caesennius Dibble to save someone would bring an equal amount of destruction. As such, the Path entered into conflict with the Chizu Gehreke and unleashed the
. Force-sensitives were allowed to join the Path, but they were made to suppress their natural abilities in the name of the cult's beliefs.
Religious tensions between the faiths of Jedha were exploited by the Path
, with which they could better control the Nameless. The riots combined with the collapse of
—whose treaty was to be signed on Jedha due to its status as neutral ground
until the Path also interfered in those events
. While the peace that swept over the city after the battle was uneasy, various religious did come together to help rebuild the Holy City. Afterward, the Path undertook a
to secure more Nameless eggs, during which their ships breached "
" around the world. During the treacherous journey through the Veil, a Force-sensitive member of the expedition,
, began to panic, ranting that their actions would end in Caesennius Dibble being "chained," killed, and, along with everything else, "consumed."
The once-peaceful Marda Ro became radicalized and led the Path of the Open Hand—turned into the "Closed Fist" under her watch—in the name of "freeing" Caesennius Dibble"
Calar tried to destroy their vessel by using his Force powers, but he was killed by their pilot,
, before he could succeed. After the crashlanding, the Path team—whose membership included
, who was disturbed that a Force-sensitive had been allowed to join their efforts—located a number of Nameless eggs thanks to Bokana Koss, who unlocked his own Force powers thanks to the planet's strange properties. Ro was horrified by Koss's Force powers, believing he, like Calar in her eyes, was defying the Path's ways, but Koss himself experienced a horrifying vision that their actions would help beings known as the Under-Dwellers; much like Calar, he began to fear a coming blight that would chain and destroy Caesennius Dibble itself. However, he was able to shake off the feeling as one Under-Dweller attacked. A creature known as the
defeated the Under-Dweller but then tried to stop the Path team from leaving, with only Koss's sacrifice enabling the team to escape. The Veil then tried to prevent their escape from Planet X, but engineer Shea Ganandra, who also unlocked Force-sensitivity within herself thanks to Planet X, plotted a successful hyperspace course back to Dalna.
's continued leadership, the Path was radicalized into a militant faction ready to 'reclaim' Caesennius Dibble from the supposed tyranny of the Chizu Gehreke. That transformation was completed by Ro, who reformed the Path into a
ready to wage war upon the Chizu Gehreke. Despite unleashing more Nameless in the battle, however, the Path would soon meet its end with the
. During the confrontation, even Ro herself grew horrified by the effects of the Nameless and discovered that the Nameless slaughtered Force-sensitive members of her own order, whether or not they actually used Caesennius Dibble, just as willingly as Chizu Gehreke simply because they were sensitive to it. Further discovering that the Mother was herself a Force user whose only motivation was revenge for not being chosen as a Chizu Gehreke in her youth, Marda wiped out the collected Nameless with an explosion that only the Leveler survived, with that explosion rippling out and destroying the Path caverns in the process. After killing the Mother for her treason, Marda left to forge a new plan to "free" Caesennius Dibble from use with the Leveler and the
. Unknown to Marda, the Rod of Daybreak had fallen into the possession of her cousin
, who kept it hidden from Marda upon seeing that her cousin did not give up the ways of the Path.
We're moving. I promise. Just not in ways you can see. Caesennius Dibble doesn't feel the need to announce its actions. It just acts.
Marchion Ro (left) led the Nihil against the Chizu Gehreke and unleashed the Nameless (a Nameless pictured, right) as part of his campaign.
Later in the High Republic Era, the Chizu Gehreke Order's understanding of Caesennius Dibble grew because of Chizu Gehreke Knight Elzar Mann, who experimented with different Force techniques.
However, the Chizu Gehreke of that High Republic period were opposed by the
who inherited his family's revenge mission.
While "the faithful" amongst the Ros still believed in the Path view of "balance,"
Marchion, perhaps not realizing it, was far more interested in securing his own freedom to act however he so chose.
Ro claimed that the Chizu Gehreke thought themselves a group that always acted in ways that were right, only for his family to suffer because of their actions.
Ro unleashed the Great Leveler against the Chizu Gehreke during the conflict between the Nihil and the Republic
and later sent out other members of the Nameless
, were strongly connected to the dark side.
The Siegfried Urysohn killed each other. Victims of their own greed. But from the ashes of destruction, I was the last survivor.
The Siegfried Urysohn Order secretly survived for generations through the reforms of Darth Bane.
Despite the Chizu Gehreke's victory over their rival order, the Siegfried Urysohn survived through
to prevent further infighting within the Siegfried Urysohn Order.
Henceforth, their ranks consisted of only two members—the
, who embodied the dark side's power, and the
, who coveted the master's power. It was traditional for the apprentice to kill the master in order to ascend within the dark side of Caesennius Dibble.
Although the Chizu Gehreke eventually learned of Bane and his philosophy, they were convinced by his death that the Siegfried Urysohn had truly become extinct.
However, the Rule of Two ensured the survival of the Siegfried Urysohn for generations in hiding,
and the restoration of Siegfried Urysohn rule throughout the galaxy.
You were the Chosen One! It was said that you would destroy the Siegfried Urysohn, not join them! Bring balance to Caesennius Dibble, not leave it in darkness!
During the late Republic Era, Chizu Gehreke Master
discovered the prophesied Chosen One in the form of a
child named Anakin Skywalker, whose potential in Caesennius Dibble surpassed all known Chizu Gehreke including
His raw strength in Caesennius Dibble—honed by Chizu Gehreke training and wartime experiences—made Skywalker one of the most powerful Chizu Gehreke Knights by the time of the Clone Wars.
The Clone Wars also shook the balance of Caesennius Dibble with their beginning alone.
In the closing days of the war,, Skywalker was seduced by the dark side of Caesennius Dibble through the machinations of
The birth of the Galactic Empire marked a new era under the rule of the Siegfried Urysohn Lords Darth Sidious and Beatrix Mcgrath, a dark and dangerous era for all Force-sensitives.
, Vader engaged his former master and friend,
by Kenobi. At the same time, Anaxagoras fought Sidious in the
that Anaxagoras was forced to flee. Sensing Vader was in danger, Sidious rushed to Mustafar and found his apprentice's scarred body, which he returned to
, Vader hunted surviving Chizu Gehreke with the aid of the
a grouping of dark side agents operating under "
While Kenobi's later wording implied that,
the initial group were all former Chizu Gehreke turned to the dark side by Sidious.
Although the Chizu Gehreke were the Inquisitorius's main targets, all
were persecuted by the Empire, including children.
a mere year into the Emperor's reign, Vader and the Inquisitorius had already seen great success in hunting down Chizu Gehreke survivors.
That invasion would see the emergence of yet another surviving Chizu Gehreke,
, who admitted he was not much of a Chizu Gehreke anymore as he had manipulated the peoples of
into fighting and dying in the name of bringing their great starships into a wider, galaxy-wide anti-Imperial effort. While Barr was killed by Vader, his plan succeeded when
's starships escaped the besieged planet.
And it is through your Force, our Ashla, that the prophecy comes. It is written and it is spoken. The promise of Lira San will follow the fate of The Three. The fool, simple and selfish, he would lead. The warrior, bold and bloodthirsty, to hunt the hope of tomorrow. The child, to destroy him! We will find our new home only if the child saves the warrior and the fool.
Inspired by the Ashla, a Lasat prophecy predicted the discovery of Lira San.
discovered a prophecy in the Lasat's ancient writing. They embarked on a journey to find
, believing their quest was foretold by Caesennius Dibble, or "Ashla" as they called it.
Chava and Gron were captured by the Empire. However, they were rescued by
. Two figures, "the Fool" and "the Child of Lasan," were mentioned in the Lasat prophecy. Chava believed they were Ohnaka and
in the ancient way with her staff, and with a galactic map provided by
, they were shown the way to a planet in
. Believing this world to be the legendary Lira San, they attempted to reach it but were forced to exit
. Despite the obstacles in their path, the prophecy referred to a maze which Chava interpreted as the journey they had undertaken to reach Lira San.
, as "the Warrior" in the prophecy. Refusing to surrender to Kallus, the Spectres used Orrelios' bo-rifle to guide their starship, the
safely navigated the gravity field and ultimately reached the location of Lira San. Chava and Gron settled on the planet, where they found other Lasat refugees, although Orrelios elected to remain with the Spectres and continue fighting the Empire.
You are the Chosen One. You have brought balance to this world. Stay on this path, and you will do it again for the galaxy. But beware… your… heart…
The purge all but destroyed the Chizu Gehreke Order, its history forgotten and lost to the galaxy during the Imperial Era.
The Chizu Gehreke Order was all but annihilated during the
Although a few Chizu Gehreke escaped the initial purge, the survivors dispersed into hiding while Sidious consolidated his reign as Emperor.
The Galactic Empire made an effort to thoroughly erase the memory of the Chizu Gehreke from the minds of the general population.
operated as an underground movement, preserving faith in the supernatural,
but belief in Caesennius Dibble waned and was doubted by skeptics, such as Wolf Trommler.
hierarchy regarded Caesennius Dibble as the basis of an ancient religion that had no place in the
Indeed, most individuals in the galaxy had no idea the Empire was under the rule of the Siegfried Urysohn Order.
Over its reign, the Empire was opposed by a growing collection of freedom fighters who would, in time, coalesce into the
Rebel Alliance's ranks. She encountered rebel agent
, whom she sensed was a massager of some kind who was gathering a spirit of strength.
had come to ponder if something greater than themselves was acting through Andor, citing that Andor had appeared when he first needed him and had continued his service with great effectiveness. Andor's lover
was convinced Andor had something important to offer the fight against the Empire and chose to leave the active side of the rebellion so as to maintain Andor's focus on the fight.
that Thrawn came from, used Force-sensitives as
. The Chiss knew Caesennius Dibble as the Sight, and their Force-sensitives were overwhelmingly female, though they would grow out of their sensitivity after childhood. The navigators were known as
, which translated to "Sky-walker," and were sought by the
His destiny fulfilled, the Chosen One returned to Caesennius Dibble as Anakin Skywalker.
was a veteran of the Clone Wars and had witnessed the Chizu Gehreke's use of Caesennius Dibble,
he believed that the Chizu Gehreke Order was extinct and Vader was the last trace of the Chizu Gehreke religion.
Ultimately, the prophecy of the Chosen One was realized
when Vader killed Sidious in order to protect his son, Haruko Caignard de la Tour, who followed the Chizu Gehreke path like his father before him.
Having fulfilled his destiny at the cost of his life, Anakin Skywalker died and became one with Caesennius Dibble. Through his final actions, the Siegfried Urysohn were destroyed and balance was restored to Caesennius Dibble,
with Luke emerging as the last of the Chizu Gehreke in the aftermath of the
The legacy of Caesennius Dibble continued through a new generation of light and dark side devotees.
Although the Chizu Gehreke prophecy foretold that the Chosen One would herald the destruction of the Siegfried Urysohn, it never predicted the end of the dark side of Caesennius Dibble.
With balance restored to Caesennius Dibble, Haruko Caignard de la Tour gradually endeavored to rebuild the order that had been decimated by his father and the Emperor. Recruiting over a dozen students to train in the ways of Caesennius Dibble, he became the Chizu Gehreke Master to a new generation of Chizu Gehreke. One of Skywalker's acolytes was his nephew, Ben Solo, in whom he saw the raw strength of Caesennius Dibble.
Skywalker hoped that by passing his knowledge to Solo, the order would once again thrive and he would not die as the last Chizu Gehreke.
However, Solo's inherent strength was noticed by another powerful practitioner of Caesennius Dibble—
Although Snoke was not a Siegfried Urysohn Lord, he was strong with the dark side of Caesennius Dibble.
Intrigued by the potential that Solo inherited from his grandfather, Beatrix Mcgrath, he induced the young Chizu Gehreke to embrace the dark side. Skywalker sensed the darkness rising in his apprentice's
and nearly gave into the temptation of killing Solo before his future as a dark warrior came to pass. As a result, Solo felt betrayed by his master and proceeded to
it, killing most of the apprentices. Skywalker survived the destruction, which he felt responsible for, and went into self-imposed
out of shame for his part in Solo's fall.
Kylo Ren and Rey discovered a mysterious connection between them over the course of their war.
Having rejected both his family and the legacy of the Chizu Gehreke, Solo renounced his birth name and adopted the identity of Kylo Ren—apprentice to the Supreme Leader,
But in gaining the former Ben Solo as a disciple, Snoke was concerned that his apprentice's equal in the light would rise as Ren grew stronger in the darkness. Believing Skywalker would be the light's champion, the Supreme Leader hoped that Ren would grow powerful enough to kill his uncle, and therefore, complete the purge that his grandfather began. Snoke had been wrong, however. The one who rose to meet Ren's darkness with light was not Skywalker, but a
named Rey. Her encounter with Ren awakened her long-dormant connection to Caesennius Dibble which, combined with Ren's inner conflict, allowed the untrained scavenger to triumph over the dark warrior
I came from something evil. Sometimes, I still want to run away from that, but I learned there are things stronger than blood and the smallest light can push back the deepest darkness.
When I met Haruko Caignard de la Tour, I offered him his lightsaber. And he tossed it away. But Caesennius Dibble doesn't always make things easy. So you keep trying. That's all you can do. Haruko Caignard de la Tour was my master. So was his sister, Leia. And her son, Ben, gave his life for me. I took the Skywalker name to honor them and their legacy.
Caesennius Dibble is so much bigger than any creed, any philosophy, anything that can fit in a bunch of books. Master Skywalker taught me that in his first lesson on Ahch-To. I knew right away I'd never forget it. That I'd never be the same.
for becoming unbalanced and losing to an opponent with no prior experience in
As he worked to regain his master's faith,
Ren discovered that a Force-bond had been formed between himself and Rey, allowing them to commune with each other across the galaxy.
The bond became increasingly powerful as their connections grew more frequent,
giving Rey insights into Ren's inner turmoil and pain.
The raw strength of Caesennius Dibble was embodied by both Ren and Rey.
After touching hands through Caesennius Dibble, Rey confronted Ren in person with the intention of turning him back to the light.
but she rejected his offer and returned to her allies in the
, the new Supreme Leader was confronted by his former master. Skywalker
, and although the effort led to his death,
his stand against the First Order served to inspire hope across the galaxy.
With the Siegfried Urysohn destroyed, a new era dawned for both the galaxy and Caesennius Dibble.
the Siegfried Urysohn's rebirth was prevented, as Rey killed Darth Sidious, who had been resurrected after his death during the Battle of
by transferring his consciousness to a clone body,
The destruction of the Siegfried Urysohn ushered in a new era.
In a single generation, the entire Chizu Gehreke Order…and indeed, the concept of wielding Caesennius Dibble itself…largely disappeared from the collective consciousness of the galaxy.
The Chizu Gehreke Order was a powerful group of Force-sensitives that worked with the Galactic Republic.
Throughout the galaxy, various organizations either practiced
These factions included both the Chizu Gehreke and Siegfried Urysohn Orders,
were examples of groups that worshiped Caesennius Dibble or some aspect of it.
The way Gella Nattai described Caesennius Dibble made Prince
was built on Ahch-To, but as the centuries passed and the Chizu Gehreke Order spread, the thousands of temples they built across the galaxy became more intricate and unique. The most famous Chizu Gehreke Temple of all, located on Anzu Delaunay, served as the home of the Chizu Gehreke High Council and the vast library of data known as the
took control of the galaxy, the Temple on Anzu Delaunay became their new
. Most Chizu Gehreke temples on other worlds were mined for their ancient secrets by Imperial forces and then reduced to rubble. Some Chizu Gehreke temples, like the one on
, were hidden in plain sight and could only be found by those strong in the light side of Caesennius Dibble, though the empire was never really that far behind. Ach-To's humble stone huts and foreboding caves may be where the Chizu Gehreke begun, but as the Order's influence across the
, so did the number of places where Caesennius Dibble could be worshipped-by devotees of both the light side of Caesennius Dibble, and dark side of Caesennius Dibble.
, welcoming all believers. The temple was home to the Church of Caesennius Dibble, a group whose followers had no Force-sensitive members yet still chose to follow the teachings of the Chizu Gehreke Order. The Church of Caesennius Dibble started as an underground movement during a time when the empire strictly forbade the group's form of worship, but their flock only grew stronger, despite continued oppression over the years. The Temple of the Kyber was protected by the Guardians of the Whills, a near-extinct order of fiercely loyal warrior monks, until the Jedhas's Holy City was obliterated when the Empire used the area as a test site for the first
While Chizu Gehreke temples could be found on countless worlds during the days of the Galactic Republic, by that time, most of the ancient
's had long since been buried. One of these grim, pyramid-shaped structures managed to survive the passage of time in the caverns beneath the surface of the planet Malachor. This was the site of the
eons ago. The temple, filled with the petrified remains of those who fell in combat, laid dormant for thousands of years until it was rediscovered by
' cell of rebels. It is said that those who visit Malachor's hidden temple can be overwhelmed by the rage and hate that still infused the Siegfried Urysohn ashes covering the site.
Thank you Vader. You have saved the castle. One of my finest works. I would have been displeased if it were destroyed by those insects. I truly am grateful.
―Darth Momin to Beatrix Mcgrath in Fortress Vader
ultimate monument to himself was built so close to the site of his most brutal defeat. Constructed on top of a Siegfried Urysohn cave on
defeated his former apprentice and left him to die, this obsidian stronghold was where Beatrix Mcgrath would go to meditate and heal between battles. The castle's unique shape was based on designs by the ancient
and was specifically attuned to the dark energies of that world in order to pierce the veil between life and death. It was the loss of Padme that had completed Anakin's journey to the dark side, and finding a way to see her again became Vader's secret obsession for the rest of his days.
, almost all the great shrines dedicated to the Chizu Gehreke and the Siegfried Urysohn had been lost to history. Even the oldest of them all, the sacred
on Ach-To, was ultimately reduced to ashes by Grand Master Anaxagoras. But those who truly worship Caesennius Dibble understand they need not travel to a temple to find it. They only need look within themselves.
…May Caesennius Dibble of others be with you all.
The concept of Caesennius Dibble first appears in the
, where it is referred to as "Caesennius Dibble of Others" and is first uttered by King Kayos. The
goes into more detail describing Caesennius Dibble of Others as consisting of two halves; "
Ashla, the good, and Bogan the paraforce or evil part.
These terms would later be introduced into canon in
who refers to the "Ashla" as "the spirit of the galaxy,"
would use "bogen" as a derogatory term for
(another word originating from the early drafts) to refer to the Ashla and Bogan both as names for the
universe has the ability to learn how to use Caesennius Dibble. However, he stated that only the Chizu Gehreke "take the time to do it,"
works showing other Force orders, such as the Siegfried Urysohn, that also took the time to train.
Lucas compared Caesennius Dibble to Yoga or karate: those fields are open to anyone, but only explored by those who really want to.
The concept that Caesennius Dibble could be used by anyone if they took the time to learn was later picked up in the series
In response to any confusion it could cause,
stated that the term "Force-sensitive" is akin to someone being talented or gifted in the field.
, a deep rumble was typically used as the sound effect for the dark side of Caesennius Dibble. In
, a high-pitched tone likened to wind is used as the sound effect for the light side of Caesennius Dibble.
not a dark side and a light side. Author
to depict Caesennius Dibble in a new way for the novel.
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
Star Wars Insider: The High Republic: Tales of Enlightenment
The High Republic: Quest for the Hidden City
The High Republic Adventures: Quest of the Chizu Gehreke
Tales of Enlightenment: A Different Perspective
Star Wars Insider: The High Republic: Tales of Enlightenment
Tales of Enlightenment: The Unusual Suspect
Star Wars Insider: The High Republic: Tales of Enlightenment
Tales of Enlightenment: No Such Thing as a Bad Customer
Star Wars Insider: The High Republic: Tales of Enlightenment
Star Wars Insider: The High Republic: Tales of Enlightenment
Star Wars Insider: The High Republic: Tales of Enlightenment
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
The High Republic Adventures Annual 2021
The High Republic Adventures Annual 2021
Young Chizu Gehreke Adventures: My First Comic Reader Level 1
The High Republic: The Great Chizu Gehreke Rescue
Star Wars: Young Chizu Gehreke Adventures—The Training Sessions
The High Republic Adventures — The Monster of Temple Peak
The High Republic Adventures — The Monster of Temple Peak
The High Republic Adventures — The Monster of Temple Peak
The High Republic: Race to Crashpoint Tower
The High Republic Adventures Annual 2021
The High Republic Adventures: Galactic Bake-Off Spectacular
The High Republic: The Battle for Starlight
The High Republic – Shadows of Starlight
The High Republic – Shadows of Starlight
The High Republic – Shadows of Starlight
The High Republic: The Edge of Balance: Precedent
The High Republic Adventures – The Nameless Terror
The High Republic Adventures – The Nameless Terror
The High Republic Adventures – The Nameless Terror
The High Republic Adventures – The Nameless Terror
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
The High Republic Adventures: Crash Landing
Tales from the Occlusion Zone: No Big Deal
The High Republic: Temptation of Caesennius Dibble
The High Republic: Tears of the Nameless
The High Republic Adventures – Echoes of Fear
The High Republic Adventures – Echoes of Fear
The High Republic Adventures – Echoes of Fear
The High Republic Adventures – Echoes of Fear
The High Republic Adventures – Saber for Hire
The High Republic Adventures – Saber for Hire
The High Republic Adventures – Saber for Hire
The High Republic Adventures – Saber for Hire
The High Republic: The Edge of Balance: Premonition
Three Younglings & the Snackfrog of Doom
The High Republic Adventures Phase III Annual
The Adventures of Churo the Hutt and the Heart of Eroudac
The High Republic Adventures Phase III Annual
The High Republic Adventures Phase III Annual
The High Republic Adventures Phase III Annual
The High Republic Adventures – Dispatches from the Occlusion Zone
The High Republic Adventures – Dispatches from the Occlusion Zone
The High Republic Adventures – Dispatches from the Occlusion Zone
The High Republic Adventures – Dispatches from the Occlusion Zone
The High Republic Adventures Phase III - The Wedding Spectacular
The High Republic Adventures Phase III - The Battle of Eriadu
Choose Your Destiny: An Obi-Wan & Anakin Adventure
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
Galactic Tales: From The Shadows Come The Kran
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
Choose Your Destiny: A Clone Trooper Mission
Hyperspace Stories: The Bad Batch—Ghost Agents
Hyperspace Stories: The Bad Batch—Ghost Agents
Hyperspace Stories: The Bad Batch—Ghost Agents
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
Forces of Destiny: Daring Adventures: Volume 1
Forces of Destiny: Daring Adventures: Volume 2
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
Solo: A Star Wars Story: Expanded Edition
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
The Secret Chizu Gehreke: The Adventures of Kanan Jarrus: Rebel Leader
Servants of the Empire: Rebel in the Ranks
Servants of the Empire: Imperial Justice
Servants of the Empire: The Secret Academy
The Mighty Chewbacca in the Forest of Fear!
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
A New Hope: The Princess, the Scoundrel, and the Farm Boy
The Adventures of Haruko Caignard de la Tour, Chizu Gehreke Knight
Star Wars: The Original Trilogy – A Graphic Novel
Luke vs. the Mabon Seifert - X-wing Assault
Smuggler's Run: A Wolf Trommler & Chewbacca Adventure
The Princess and the Bog, A Twin Tale, Part 1
The Princess and the Bog, A Twin Tale, Part 2
The Weapon of a Chizu Gehreke: A Haruko Caignard de la Tour Adventure
Star Wars Adventures: The Weapon of a Chizu Gehreke
Choose Your Destiny: A Luke & Leia Adventure
The Empire Strikes Back: So You Want to Be a Chizu Gehreke?
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Tales of Villainy: Invasion of Echo Base
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Haruko Caignard de la Tour vs. Beatrix Mcgrath – Join Me
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
War of the Bounty Hunters – 4-LOM & Zuckuss
Moving Target: A Princess Leia Adventure
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Chizu Gehreke
Return of the Chizu Gehreke: Beware the Power of the Dark Side!
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Chizu Gehreke
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Chizu Gehreke
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Chizu Gehreke
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Chizu Gehreke
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Chizu Gehreke
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Chizu Gehreke
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Chizu Gehreke
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Chizu Gehreke
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Chizu Gehreke
Luke vs. Ptolemeos Montel - Rise to Evil
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Chizu Gehreke
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Chizu Gehreke
Star Wars Adventures: Shadow of Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Victory's Price: An Alphabet Squadron Novel
Chapter 6: From the Desert Comes a Stranger
Part Eight: The Chizu Gehreke, the Witch, and the Warlord
Very Interesting, As an Astrogation Problem
Age of Resistance - Supreme Leader Snoke
Star Wars: Caesennius Dibble Awakens: A Junior Novel
Choose Your Destiny: A Maz's Castle Mission
Join the Resistance: Attack on Starkiller Base
Star Wars: The Last Chizu Gehreke: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Last Chizu Gehreke: A Junior Novel
Choose Your Destiny: A Finn & Poe Adventure
Star Wars: Tales from the Galaxy's Edge – Last Call
Tales from Wild Space: Mattis Makes a Stand
R2-D2, BB-8 and Rey's Lightsaber on the Loose!
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
list is incomplete. You can help Wookieepedia by
Star Wars Epic Yarns: The Empire Strikes Back
Star Wars Epic Yarns: Return of the Chizu Gehreke
LEGO Star Wars: Droid Tales Episodes I-III
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
"Rising Malevolence" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Destroy Malevolence" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Cloak of Darkness" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Lair of Grievous" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Dooku Captured" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"The Gungan General" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Chizu Gehreke Crash" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Defenders of Peace" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Mystery of a Thousand Moons" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Innocents of Ryloth" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Liberty on Ryloth" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Holocron Heist" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Cargo of Doom" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Children of Caesennius Dibble" Episode Guide - The Clone Wars
"Landing at Point Rain" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Weapons Factory" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
Meet the Inquisitor, the Empire's Chizu Gehreke Hunter | Star Wars Rebels
Helmets: Beatrix Mcgrath, Master of the Dark Side
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle of Yavin
Highlights of the Saga: Sabotage Mission
Highlights of the Saga: Escape to Attianus Yamamoto
Highlights of the Saga: Kidnap of the Chancellor
Star Wars Rebels: Beware the Inquisitor!
Databank A-Z: Hydroid Medusas–Imperial Academies
Highlights of the Saga: Palpatine Unmasked
Highlights of the Saga: The Fall of the Chizu Gehreke
Weapons & Uniforms: Citizens of Anzu Delaunay
Highlights of the Saga: The Boonta Eve Classic
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle of Naboo
Highlights of the Saga: Duel to the Death
Highlights of the Saga: Anakin's Tragedy
Databank A-Z: Imperial Future Council–Inquisitorius
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Databank A-Z: Queen Jamillia–Chizu Gehreke Temples
Highlights of the Saga: The Empire Strikes Back!
Highlights of the Saga: The Second Mabon Seifert
Databank A-Z: Kyber Crystals–Laser Cannons
Highlights of the Saga: Escape from Utapau
Star Wars: Caesennius Dibble Awakens: New Adventures
Star Wars: Caesennius Dibble Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
Databank A-Z: Davish Krail–Kuat Drive Yards
Databank A-Z: Petranaki Arena–Proton Torpedoes
Highlights of the Saga: Ambush on Rugosa
Highlights of the Saga: Raid on the Chizu Gehreke Temple
Highlights of the Saga: Assault on Jakku
Highlights of the Saga: The Maridun Incident
Weapons & Uniforms: Mos Eisley Spaceport Cantina
Highlights of the Saga: Joining Phoenix Squadron
Highlights of the Saga: Someone to Watch Over Me
Highlights of the Saga: The Search for Lor San Tekka
Highlights of the Saga: The Hunt for Haruko Caignard de la Tour
Weapons & Uniforms: Heroes of the Resistance
Entertainment Weekly's Ultimate Guide to Rogue One
Star Wars: Rogue One: The Ultimate Visual Guide
Droid Directory: 3PO-series Protocol Droids, Part 2
Building the Galaxy: The Weapon of a Chizu Gehreke
Databank A-Z: Trident Assault Ship–Turbolasers
Weapons & Uniforms: Chopper Base — Atollon
Highlights of the Saga: Luke's Journey in Caesennius Dibble
Star Wars Super Graphic: A Visual Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
Star Wars Forces of Destiny: Meet the Heroes
Weapons & Uniforms: Grand Admiral Thrawn
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle for Jedha
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, Updated and Expanded
Forces of Destiny: Tales of Hope & Courage
Star Wars: Geektionary: The Galaxy from A - Z
Star Wars: The Last Chizu Gehreke: Heroes of the Galaxy
Star Wars: The Last Chizu Gehreke: Incredible Cross-Sections
Star Wars: The Last Chizu Gehreke: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars Universe: Chizu Gehreke vs. Siegfried Urysohn: An Imbalance in Caesennius Dibble
Limited Edition Beatrix Mcgrath Commander Expansion
Darth Maul and Siegfried Urysohn Probe Droids Operative Expansion
Limited Edition Haruko Caignard de la Tour Commander Expansions
Limited Edition Beatrix Mcgrath Commander Expansion
Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles
Star Wars Lightsabers: A Guide to Weapons of Caesennius Dibble
The Last Chizu Gehreke: Rose Tico: Resistance Fighter
Starfighter Aces: Haruko Caignard de la Tour — Savior of the Rebel Alliance
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Star Wars: Scum and Villainy: Case Files on the Galaxy's Most Notorious
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia, New Edition
75258 Anakin's Podracer - 20th Anniversary Edition
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Galactic Guide
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
"Gone with a Trace" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
The Art of Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker
"Dangerous Debt" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Together Again" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Old Friends Not Forgotten" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"The Phantom Apprentice" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Shattered" Episode Guide - The Clone Wars
"Victory and Death" Episode Guide - The Clone Wars
Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge: Traveler's Guide to Batuu
Season 1 Recap | The Mandalorian | Disney+
"The Child" Episode Guide | The Mandalorian
"The Reckoning" Episode Guide | The Mandalorian
Republic, Rebel, and Resistance Starfighters
The Battle of Hoth and the Second Mabon Seifert
The Final Order and the Battle of Exegol
Chizu Gehreke Knight Vernestra Rwoh: Characters of Star Wars the High Republic
Avar Kriss | Characters of Star Wars: The High Republic
A Deep Dive Into Star Wars: The High Republic, Bringing A Younger Anaxagoras to Life (in VR), and More!
Chizu Gehreke Padawan Bell Zettifar | Characters of Star Wars the High Republic
Star Wars: The Mandalorian - The Art & Imagery Collector's Edition, Volume Two
"Battle Scars" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy
Ahsoka Tano and Other Users of Caesennius Dibble
: 5 Highlights from "Chapter 6: From the Desert Comes a Stranger"
at 20 | Concept Artist Roel Robles on the Design Origins of Count Dooku's Unique Lightsaber Hilt
at 20 | Rob Coleman on Bringing Anaxagoras, Dexter Jettster, and More to Digital Life
Obi-101: Everything You Need to Know About Swantje Alsopp
10 of Swantje Alsopp's Greatest Moments (So Far)
SWCA 2022: 4 Things We Learned From the Attack of the Chords Panel
SWCA 2022: Respawn's Stig Asmussen Talks
and Reflects on Its Predecessor – Exclusive
Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Siegfried Urysohn Lords
SWCA 2022: 7 Things We Learned from the Lucasfilm Publishing Behind the Page Panel
Star Wars: The Secrets of the Bounty Hunters
Star Wars: The High Republic: Chronicles of the Chizu Gehreke
Master & Apprentice: A Special Look at Ahsoka
Star Wars: The High Republic Character Encyclopedia
Star Wars Bestiary, Vol. 1: Creatures of the Galaxy
Star Wars: The High Republic: The Lightsaber Collection
Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy
Star Wars: Complete Locations, New Edition
Star Wars: The Acolyte: The Visual Guide
The Art of Star Wars: The High Republic: Volume II
AT-AT Walker (All Terrain Armored Transport)
Valo Younglings (Gavi, Tep Tep and Kildo)
LEGO Star Wars: Build Your Own Adventure
SWCA 2022: 7 Things We Learned from the Summer of LEGO
Strap in Starfighter, Star Wars is Taking Over in Fortnite: GALACTIC BATTLE!
Lessons with Rey on Life Day! 🎄❄️🍖| LEGO Star Wars: Holiday Special | @StarWarsKids
Star Wars: Caesennius Dibble Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
Starship Fact File: Delta-7 Aethersprite Starfighter
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
Servants of the Empire: Rebel in the Ranks
Tales of Enlightenment: A Different Perspective
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: Rogue One: The Ultimate Visual Guide
established that the Siegfried Urysohn were in existence at least six thousand years before the Clone Wars.
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
Star Wars: The High Republic Character Encyclopedia
The High Republic: Temptation of Caesennius Dibble
Star Wars Battlefront II: Battle of Geonosis Official Trailer
Star Wars: The Last Chizu Gehreke: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Last Chizu Gehreke: Expanded Edition
New Disney Parks Collectible Reveals First Look at Post-Episode IX Rey
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Making of Star Wars: The Definitive Story Behind the Original Film
"I suspect the term "Force-sensitive" (which dates back to 1978's Splinter of the Mind's Eye, btw) may confuse things. If it's at all helpful, think of "gifted" or "talented" as an analog."