Parts of this article are no longer up to date. This article needs updating from multiple sources. Click the dropdown below to see the full list.
Very Interesting, As an Astrogation Problem
Star Wars: The Galactic Explorer's Guide
Core Worlds, Colonies, the Inner Rim and Expansion Region
Star Wars: Dawn of Rebellion: The Visual Guide
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
Star Wars Bestiary, Vol. 1: Creatures of the Galaxy
Star Wars: Galactic Atlas: Updated Edition
Please update the article to include missing information, and remove this template when finished.
The galaxy knows Alderaan as 'the planet of beauty.' Nature, poetry, philosophy, art, couture, cuisine—we freely share all with all.
. Alderaan was regarded for its natural beauty, its tranquility, and the sophistication of its arts and culture.
, Alderaan played a pivotal role in the establishment of the
, a movement that sought to restore the Old Republic's values, and was one of its earliest supporters. Because of its ties with the Alliance, the planet was
developed by the Empire, at full strength. Among the few survivors of that disaster was
, adopted daughter of Bail and Breha Organa and heiress to the
This is going to sit inside you forever… and if I'm going to die, I want to really think about this. Imagine actually killing Alderaan. Alderaan of all places! Alderaan is nice. Who'd blow up Alderaan? Hell of a place. Incredible history. Good party town. Hell, even had great sunsets. Now it doesn't even have a sky.
Alderaanians were very artistic and lived for this beauty, but the planet still hid treacherous cliffs and forgotten crevasses.
Famous natural landmarks of Alderaan included the
grew on Alderaan, which notably allowed to produce
on Alderaan were carefully designed to respect the natural beauty of their environment.
family, which had been the work of over a millennium,
and the city around it blended into the local snow-capped peaks. Alderaanian architecture made use of white
, which inspired the architecture of certain
Despite the lyrics of the traditional Alderaanian lullaby "
" referencing a moon, the planet never possessed any natural satellites.
The peaceful world of Alderaan was among the oldest members of the
and was among the worlds that originally founded it.
it was established that the heir apparent to Alderaan must complete a
as heir. In ancient times, Alderaanian heirs who partook in their Day of Demand had to fight their way into the palace throne room.
Before they permanently settled on Coruscant, the
was known to have a council on Alderaan.
, which produced unique architecture. The
, whom she wanted to begin a hauling business with.
, Alderaan was a prosperous world and, as a signatory of the
and personnel to be commanded by Republic military officers during times of crisis. These ships and personnel would then be returned to Alderaan after the crisis ended. Alderaan was called upon to fulfill this obligation in
the heir apparent of Alderaan, sixteen year old
, took part in her Day of Demand where she announced her challenges of the heart, mind and body. However during her Challenge of the Body Breha
and would have died had it not been for the quick action of the guards watching from a distance. The princess survived but ended up having to have her
. After her fall Breha was officially invested as crown princess and heir to the throne of Alderaan. Years later the people would still speak of Breha's accident.
, Alderaan had not seen conflict in generations.
, was ousted from office, and Antilles was nominated for the position in the resulting election. However, the
and her entourage were invited to Alderaan by Queen Breha and stayed at the royal palace for a week before returning home to
Ten years later, Alderaan was represented in the Senate by
of the planet's ruler, Queen Breha Organa.
, pushing the galaxy to the brink of war. Through Organa, Alderaan was a member of Chancellor Palpatine's
, which concerned itself with the stability of the Republic during the Separatist crisis and would later strive to limit Palpatine's increasing executive authority. That year, an
, which would be appropriated by the Senate in order to combat the Separatists. To save the Republic from the impending threat, the Supreme Chancellor was granted emergency powers, a decision that was contrary to the pacifist values of Alderaan and its representative and which ultimately led to the outbreak of the
During the Clone Wars Viceroy Bail Organa became Alderaan's military leader.
Alderaan Refugee Conference during the Clone Wars.
At some point during the Clone Wars, Alderaan hosted a
. Padmé Amidala, then senator of Naboo, was nearly
to take revenge. The plot, however, was thwarted by the
Many refugees from all over the Republic came to stay on Alderaan during the war to find their way again or to stay.
Queen Breha and Viceroy Bail would send aid to worlds that had been ravaged by the Separatists, sending not just
implied that the two had gotten intoxicated in
The Clone Wars saw a change in Alderaan. Although it was still a peaceful planet with no large weaponry, the
had seen more hardship, they manufactured more practical items in larger quantities, and the planet had begun to quietly fill up due to the number of refugees.
Following the end of the Clone Wars, Viceroy Bail and Queen Breha adopted
, the daughter of the now deceased Padmé Amidala and former
, renaming her to Leia Organa and making her princess of Alderaan.
three or four days after her birth and was publicly celebrated on Alderaan.
identifying Ezra Bridger and Sabine Wren as rebels
, right after the end of the Clone Wars.
and after completing her three challenges became invested as crown princess and the future queen of Alderaan.
With the Clone Wars coming to an end, Chancellor Palpatine had abolished the Republic,
However, a small number of systems rebelled against this new regime,
was ultimately formed by Bail Organa and his former colleague in the Galactic Senate, Senator
During this time, Alderaan became the Alliance's main source of munitions. The planet's crown princess and representative in the
began using her diplomatic immunity as an Imperial senator to carry out Rebel missions in restricted Imperial systems.
. It was included in a map of the galaxy with a legend listing the various Alliance safe worlds,
hubs at level five or higher, rebel operations sectors and regional headquarters, and shadow planets with deep space caches. The map would later be incorporated into
Garel. Since Alderaan could not be seen directly supporting the rebels, Senator Organa arranged for his adopted daughter Leia to deliver the vessels to Lothal. The Alderaanians risked losing their seat in the Imperial Senate among other Imperial sanctions. Senator Organa had arranged for the
to "steal" the ships from an Imperial depot on Lothal so that Alderaan could not be blamed for the "theft." With the help of the crew of the
, Leia managed to deliver the three Hammerhead corvettes to the Phoenix rebels following a
Princess Leia, before your execution, I would like you to be my guest at a ceremony that will make this battle station operational. No star system will dare oppose the Emperor now.
The more you tighten your grip, Tarkin, the more star systems will slip through your fingers.
Not after we demonstrate the power of this station. In a way, you have determined the choice of the planet that will be destroyed first. Since you are reluctant to provide us with the location of the Rebel base, I have chosen to test this station's destructive power on your home planet of Alderaan.
Senator Bail Organa headed towards Alderaan to tell their people that there would "be no peace,"
, were discovered. The plans were later stolen from the data vault on
. Princess Leia of Alderaan, Bail's adopted daughter and thus member of the
while smuggling the plans to the Alliance base. Organa was taken prisoner by Vader, the Emperor's second-in-command, and brought before the Death Star's commanding officer,
Under threat of destroying her planet, Leia gave a fake location of the rebel base to Tarkin, only for Tarkin to nevertheless destroy Alderaan—noting that
was too remote for an "effective demonstration"
—to punish the world for supporting the Rebellion,
hoping the annihilation of the entire world would make the rest of the galaxy fear Imperial retribution for supporting the Rebels. The Imperials forced the princess to witness the obliteration of her home planet. The planet's destruction left only an
began to hold vigils for those who had perished in what they called "
." However, as more information became available about the Empire's role in the destruction of Alderaan, the vigils soon turned into riots, which were quickly repressed by brute force.
The Empire defended the destruction of the planet to its
, claiming that its population had chosen its destruction by supporting anarchy.
A short time after Alderaan's destruction, the Death Star was destroyed in the Battle of Yavin, taking Tarkin
and many other high ranking Imperials with it.
Under the orders of Vader, the Imperial Military was to "complete" the destruction of Alderaan by hunting any remaining Alderaanians.
Almost immediately after the Death Star's destruction, Leia Organa would embark on a
to rescue the survivors of Alderaan from Imperial reprisals.
Also following the Battle of Yavin, Vader took the remains of Alderaan to serve as reminders to worlds that attempted to resist the Emperor; following an
, who had also been 26th in line to the throne, tried to have his own revenge on the Empire but was left behind and for dead by a
What act of terror could be more horrible than what happened to Alderaan? Have you forgotten that? I was there. I saw it happen, stood there watching while they destroyed my world, my home, everyone I had ever loved—
. Due to the destruction of Alderaan, Leia's mother, Breha Organa, couldn't attach the
to her waist before Leia went to meet her husband, though, during the
, Leia felt as if her mother was attaching the sword and her father, Bail Organa, was kissing her on the cheek. After the ceremony, Leia mused to herself that had Alderaan not been destroyed she would have been married at the
in Aldera, with a customary lace dress, an
dedicated to the bell service, three different traditional
, the new name for the debris remaining of the planet. Princess Leia managed to use her political connections to take scrap from the Death Star, initially intended for incineration, to be used to construct a new space station around the planet.
, Alderaan's destruction would become a stark reminder for future generations about the terrors of the Galactic Empire, and would often be an 'uncomfortable subject' for those that brought up the planet's destruction in conversation. As such, surviving Alderaanians would be treated with great respect for their lost world and people. For collectors, rare bottles of the alcoholic beverage Toniray would become a highly-prized commodity.
Soldiers are a thing of Alderaan's past, Leia.
―Bail Organa, to his adopted daughter Leia
Alderaanians valued culture and education.
, known as Alderaanians, who were known for their philosophy of paciﬁsm. Even in time of galactic conflicts, the Alderaanians shunned weapons. They were not, however, bereft of spirit, as many of them chose to join the rebellion against the Galactic Empire. Their society was ruled by the
in conjunction with an individual bearing the titles of Viceroy and
The female child of the royal couple was referred to as a princess.
For diplomatic missions, the Royal Family used streamlined cruisers.
, on Alderaan, its people were encouraged to learn and grow. All education was free, and people would volunteer to teach various skills or crafts just for fun.
and personally mentored a select number of young Alderaanians, including
, teaching them about the culture and heritage of their homeworld.
Alderaan also had a number of traditions involving
such as who wore them, when and why that varied from continent to continent and age to age. The Alderaaian monarch was expected to wear braids.
whose designs would be carved by the child's
and grandparents though the child themselves choose what went inside. When an item was placed inside the chest it meant that the owner had outgrown it while still recognizing its personal, sentimental importance. In adulthood, an Alderaanian could then open their chest, look back, and see how they had chosen to tell their own story.
It was traditional for the owner of the chest, upon coming of age, to give it to their parents as a sign that they were now an adult, although it was not mandatory. Many heirs of Alderaan would give up their keepsake chest before their investiture as crown prince or princess though the ritual didn't demand it.
The Alderaan system actually consists of seven planets. Alderaan was the capital planet of that system. There was a Senate and my father was the president of that Senate.
―George Lucas, assuming Leia Organa's character
saga. In that movie, the planet was only seen from space during the scene depicting its destruction.
, the name of Alderaan was used for the capital of the "New Galactic Empire." At that time, it was described as a giant gas planet that resembled
that resembled Cloud City on it. In the second draft of
, the home planet of Princess Leia was called
were also considered as names for worlds partially corresponding to Alderaan.
was being built around the movie. In order to get everyone on the same page, George Lucas decided to create a few background stories and ideas. In those notes, Alderaan was described as a four or five million years old Earth-like planet, covered with high snowcapped mountains and green pastures. The same notes also described the planet as being the capital of its star system and possessing its own Senate.
, the surface of Alderaan only made its first appearance in the
The planet's mountainous terrain was modelled after a location in the
, Alderaan was mistakenly depicted as being in the
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
The High Republic Adventures — The Monster of Temple Peak
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
A New Hope: The Princess, the Scoundrel, and the Farm Boy
Star Wars: The Original Trilogy – A Graphic Novel
Princess Leia vs. Darth Vader - A Fearless Leader
Smuggler's Run: A Han Solo & Chewbacca Adventure
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
The Weapon of a Jedi: A Luke Skywalker Adventure
The Empire Strikes Back: So You Want to Be a Jedi?
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Moving Target: A Princess Leia Adventure
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Return of the Jedi: Beware the Power of the Dark Side!
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Star Wars Adventures: Shadow of Vader's Castle
Victory's Price: An Alphabet Squadron Novel
Very Interesting, As an Astrogation Problem
Galactic Tales: The Crimson Corsair and the Sinister Secret of the Binary Star
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: A Junior Novel
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: A Junior Novel
Tales from Wild Space: Family Affair, Part 1
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel
"Dooku Captured" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Jedi Crash" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Escape from Kadavo" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
Weapons & Uniforms: Imperial High Command
Highlights of the Saga: Escape to Tatooine
Highlights of the Saga: The Capture of the
Weapons & Uniforms: Leaders of the Rebel Alliance
Weapons & Uniforms: Princess Leia Organa
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Databank A-Z: Kyber Crystals–Laser Cannons
Highlights of the Saga: Escape from Utapau
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
Highlights of the Saga: Alderaan Survives!
Weapons & Uniforms: Citizens of Alderaan
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia: Updated and Expanded
Star Wars: X-Wing Deluxe Book and Model Set
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
Much to Learn You Still Have: 7 Things You Might Not Know About Sullustans
Entertainment Weekly's Ultimate Guide to Rogue One
Star Wars: Rogue One: The Ultimate Visual Guide
Droid Directory: 3PO-series Protocol Droids, Part 1
Droid Directory: 3PO-series Protocol Droids, Part 2
Weapons & Uniforms: Rebel Leaders at Yavin 4
Star Wars Super Graphic: A Visual Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, Updated and Expanded
Databank A-Z: Vibroblades–Cikatro Vizago
Star Wars: Geektionary: The Galaxy from A - Z
Behind the Cameras: How the Death Star Was Created
Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles
Solo: A Star Wars Story The Official Guide
Star Wars: Scum and Villainy: Case Files on the Galaxy's Most Notorious
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia, New Edition
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
Star Wars: How Not to Get Eaten by Ewoks and Other Galactic Survival Skills
75243 Slave I - 20th Anniversary Edition
Rebel Starfighters Owners' Workshop Manual
Alderaanian Guard — CR90 Corellian Corvette
Star Wars: The Galactic Explorer's Guide
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge: Traveler's Guide to Batuu
The Battle of Hoth and the Second Death Star
The Final Order and the Battle of Exegol
Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy
Star Wars Droids Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
Core Worlds, Colonies, the Inner Rim and Expansion Region
Obi-Wan Kenobi Props, LEGO Star Wars Summer Vacation, and More!
SDCC 2023: 10 Reveals from the Lucasfilm Publishing Panel
Star Wars: Dawn of Rebellion: The Visual Guide
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
Star Wars Bestiary, Vol. 1: Creatures of the Galaxy
Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy
Star Wars: Complete Locations, New Edition
Star Wars: The Acolyte: The Visual Guide
s Dedra Meero and Other Sleuths Solving Mysteries in the
Star Wars: Galactic Atlas: Updated Edition
Star Wars: The Galactic Explorer's Guide
A New Hope: The Princess, the Scoundrel, and the Farm Boy
Star Wars Super Graphic: A Visual Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
The Empire Strikes Back: So You Want to Be a Jedi?
Moving Target: A Princess Leia Adventure
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
SDCC 2023: 10 Reveals from the Lucasfilm Publishing Panel
Breha was Queen of Alderaan in the novel
, whose events take place four years after
, it can be deduced that Breha was queen by
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, Updated and Expanded
The Making of Star Wars: The Definitive Story Behind the Original Film
The Art of Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith