This article has multiple issues and is in need of major additions and/or work.
Parts of this article have been identified as no longer being up to date. ({{
}}) The article needs to be updated with
Star Wars Book II: Showdown on the Smuggler's Moon
Star Wars Book V: The Last Flight of the Harbinger
Star Wars Book XIII: The Scourging of Shu-Torun
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Star Wars Vol. 3: War of the Bounty Hunters
Moving Target: A Princess Leia Adventure
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle 1
Star Wars: The Force Awakens (novelization)
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: A Junior Novel
Choose Your Destiny: A Finn & Poe Adventure
Star Wars: Episode IX The Rise of Skywalker
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel
Star Wars: The Clone Wars: Character Encyclopedia - Join the Battle!
Star Wars: The Secrets of the Bounty Hunters
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
Please help Wookieepedia by editing this article. Once you have fixed an issue, you may remove it from the list of issues. See this article's
We seem to be made to suffer. It's our lot in life.
, programmed primarily for etiquette and protocol. Sometimes referred to as
, he was fluent in over six million forms of
, and developed a fussy and worry-prone personality throughout his many
of operation. Along with his counterpart, the
, C-3PO constantly found himself directly involved in pivotal moments of
, and aided in saving the galaxy on many occasions.
. Shortly after the Clone Wars, C-3PO's memory was
, though R2-D2's memory was not. C-3PO and R2-D2 were assigned to the
for nineteen years, assisting in his fledgling
. At some point during this time, C-3PO's right leg was fitted with mismatched plating.
C-3PO remained constant companions with R2, and in
on Tatooine. After meeting Skywalker's son,
. They became directly attached to the three humans, helping them and their rebellion defeat the Empire and restore freedom to the galaxy, most notably when he convinced the
Following the Battle of Endor, C-3PO continued serving the Skywalkers and Solo during the time of the
. About thirty years after the events on
, C-3PO was still an aide to Organa, who had become a
, a private military group opposed to the
, a military junta that emulated the Old Empire. By that time, C-3PO was fitted with a new set of gold plating, which had a more symmetrical design than his previous coverings, with the exception of his head. His new coverings included a third finger joint, and a torso that was not as slim as it used to be. Because of his new plating, he no longer had a mismatched right lower leg. Although, he did end up wearing a red left arm for a very short time. By that time, C-3PO's language database had also been updated so that he could understand and communicate in over seven million different forms of communication, including ancient Sith dialects. He would assist
in translating Sith writings in order to locate
, allowing his memory to be wiped in order to carry out the task. However, his friend R2 backed up a large portion of his memories, and after the Resistance defeated Sidious and the Sith Eternal in the
Captured by SCAR Squadron and Rescued by R2-D2
Oh, might I remind you, sir, I was once protocol droid to the chief negotiator for the entire Manakron system.
In an early incarnation, C-3PO served as a
later claimed that his first job was programming
Anakin Skywalker got C-3PO's photoreceptors in a chase through Mos Espa.
At some point, however, C-3PO was seriously damaged
and his vital components were left behind on a junk pile on
As Anakin longed for a life far from Tatooine and explore
, he hoped to have C-3PO as his and his mother's faithful companion so they would be able to venture the galaxy one day and understand the languages of the natives they came across, given C-3PO's capability of millions of communication forms.
Although protocol droids were normally designed for light duty in luxurious environments, Skywalker specially modified C-3PO so he could withstand Tatooine's sand and heat.
C-3PO served Anakin and his mother Shmi by performing household chores. During his time with Skywalker and Shmi, C-3PO's parts and wiring were left exposed since Skywalker was unable to outfit him with an outer covering due to droid plating being too expensive.
, C-3PO's life entered a new chapter when his owner Anakin met several off-worlders at the shop of his owner, the
, and then invited them to seek shelter at
were brought to the slave quarters that Anakin shared with his mother Shmi. As a result of this invitation, Amidala and R2-D2 were introduced to C-3PO. Anakin plugged in one of C-3PO's
which became the first time C-3PO had experienced sight.
Upon meeting R2-D2, C-3PO was shocked when the candid astromech droid commented that he was "naked." Despite the exchange, the two droids fast developed a friendship of sorts, working together to help Skywalker make final adjustments to
, the two droids discussed space travel and noted the clumsy actions of Binks.
In Mos Espa, C-3PO helped his owner prepare for the Boonta Eve pod race.
On the day of the race, C-3PO represented his owner in the opening flag parade, carrying Skywalker's flag onto
prior to the start of the race. He then stood on the sidelines with R2-D2 and two of Skywalker's playmates,
, who cheered their friend on. Skywalker won the race, which, thanks to a deal that Jinn had struck with Watto, earned the boy his freedom from slavery and secured Jinn the
he needed to leave the planet. As Skywalker prepared to depart Tatooine, he said his goodbyes to C-3PO, apologizing for not having completed the droid's construction, and expressing his wishes that Shmi wouldn't sell him.
There's been some terrible mistake. I'm programmed for etiquette, not destruction!
, who freed and married her. Shmi brought C-3PO along with her, and the protocol droid found himself in the service of the Lars family, who owned a
in a tarnished grey plating to shield him from Tatooine's sandy environment. Ten years after his parting with Anakin Skywalker, Shmi was kidnapped by a group of
, fearsome nomads native to Tatooine's desert wastes. Sensing his mother's pain and anguish through
, Anakin returned with his secret lover and childhood friend Padmé Amidala to find his mother. Skywalker had advanced in his Jedi training as a
When Skywalker and Amidala visited the Lars' moisture farm, they found C-3PO working on a moisture vaporator. He initially didn't recognize Skywalker until the latter finished his name for him when introducing himself. Greeting his Maker, C-3PO discovered that Skywalker had come in search of his mother, and brought the two guests into the homestead's courtyard, where they were met by Cliegg Lars, as well as his son,
. Learning of his mother's peril, Skywalker took Owen's
to find her, and soon returned with her corpse, having recovered it from a Tusken village. C-3PO was present when he arrived, and later attended a funeral for Shmi on the farm's property. When R2-D2, who had been waiting aboard Amidala's nearby yacht, interrupted the funeral with an urgent message for the Padawan, C-3PO translated the astromech's
beeps and whistles. After viewing the holocomm message, Skywalker and Amidala departed Tatooine for
to rescue Skywalker's Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi, taking Threepio with them.
Thus, C-3PO would become both a witness and participant in the subsequent
, a conflict that would change the course of galactic history. After landing on Geonosis, C-3PO reluctantly followed R2-D2, Skywalker, and Amidala into the Geonosian droid foundry. After being trapped in the factory's conveyor belt system, C-3PO's head was separated from his body and grafted onto the chassis of a
was inserted onto Threepio's body. During the ensuing battle, both of C-3PO's "bodies" were knocked out during the fighting. Fortunately for him, he was promptly reattached to his rightful body by R2-D2. Following the events on Geonosis, C-3PO and R2-D2 travelled to Naboo with Skywalker and Amidala for the two to be
In the days following the Geonosis battle and before the wedding, C-3PO was determined to keep Skywalker and Amidala out of each other's sight until the wedding itself. Whilst waiting for the ceremony, Amidala believed there was a high chance Skywalker was biding his time by working on C-3PO, as the droid needed to be cleaned after the sands of Tatooine
to get into his joints, only to be further dirtied by the sands of Geonosis. As such, the protocol unit needed to receive a cleaning before he could receive his yet-to-be-finished new plating. Despite C-3PO's attempts, the two humans did see each other before the wedding, as Amidala, per a request from Queen
of Naboo, needed the help of R2-D2 and Skywalker to
. After completing the mission, they returned to the Lake House to be wed,
C-3PO and Senator Amidala trying to escape the
During the Clone Wars, C-3PO would serve Senator Padmé Amidala, the spouse of Anakin Skywalker, and was given a shiny
plating to better suit his new role. On one occasion, Amidala was captured by
during a mission to reopen communications with the
. Amidala contacted C-3PO, who in turn contacted the
and freed Amidala. Meanwhile, Skywalker and his Padawan
managed to rescue Rotta and return him safely to his father. C-3PO and his comrades' actions help the Republic win over Jabba, who later signed a favorable treaty with them.
Following the Rotta affair, C-3PO accompanied Senator Amidala on a mission to contact the
's executive, who purportedly wanted to sue for peace. Their planned rendezvous was a point of space near the
. Unknown to the two of them, this was a trap concocted by
and his apprentice Count Dooku. The Separatist military commander
had been damaged during a recent space battle and was unable to enter
. The Sith and Separatists hoped to use Senator Amidala as a hostage to extract leverage from the Republic commander Skywalker, who was pursuing the
Amidala's vessel was trapped in the Separatist warship's
, but they broke free by exploding their vessel's engines. C-3PO and Amidala then sneaked aboard and contacted Skywalker for help. Skywalker along with Kenobi and R2-D2 boarded the
and made arrangements to rendezvous with C-3PO and the Senator at the warship's
system. However, they were accosted by battle droids there, which prompted Amidala to shove C-3PO into a moving
. After the battle droids were neutralized, Kenobi began levitating C-3PO to safety, but the floating droid was hit full-on by a moving hover train, which was only halted when R2-D2 sliced into a computer terminal and shut it down. The sudden stop launched C-3PO onto a nearby platform, where he quickly regained his bearings and again began wandering the cruiser's corridors before being located by R2-D2. Together, the two droids escaped the
before the Separatist warship crashed into a nearby moon after being sabotaged by Skywalker.
, C-3PO along with Senator Amidala and the Gungan Representative Jar Jar Binks traveled to
remained loyal to the Galactic Republic. While Threepio and Binks remained with Amidala's yacht on the landing platform, Senator Amidala went to meet Farr. An ill-fated attempt to contact local swamp creatures ended with some
being thrown into C-3PO's face. Unknown to Amidala, Farr had already struck a deal with the Separatist leader
C-3PO and Binks were soon confronted by several B1 battle droids. During the ensuing confrontation, Threepio became stuck to a
that collided with the Separatist battle droids, throwing them into the water below. While attempting to take off, Binks accidentally destroyed the yacht with the magnetic hoist. Threepio remained stuck to the hoist due to his metallic body, but Binks along with the yacht fell into the water below. C-3PO believed that Binks perished during the accident. However, Binks resurfaced and promptly released C-3PO from the hoist. While scouring through the wrecked yacht, Binks found and donned a Jedi robe.
Shortly, the two of them were separated again, and Threepio was captured by Separatist droids, who were ordered to march him to a dismantling center. However, C-3PO was rescued by Amidala, who destroyed his captors. She ordered C-3PO to send a distress signal to nearby Republic forces. Threepio succeeded in sending for help before being arrested by two more Separatist droids. Gunray then attempted to execute both Amidala and C-3PO but was foiled by Binks, who returned with a
monster, which disposed of the Separatist droids. Senator Farr then turned on Gunray and arrested him, revealing that his collaboration with the Separatists had been a ruse to lure the Viceroy into a trap. Republic forces arrived on Rodia and promptly apprehended Gunray. Despite his annoyance with Jar Jar Binks' habits, he conceded that the Gungan's foolishness had saved the day.
C-3PO played an important role in ending hostilities between the Pantorans and Talz
Later, C-3PO and R2-D2 accompanied Skywalker, Kenobi, and
on a mission to investigate the disappearance of a clone trooper force on the icy planet of
. Their mission was complicated by the presence of several
. The Pantorans claimed territorial sovereignty over Orto Plutonia even though it was supposedly devoid of sentient life. After discovering the dead clone troopers, the Jedi and Republic mission also discovered that a nearby Separatist base had been destroyed. They quickly deduced that a third force had been responsible for these two attacks.
Later, Skywalker and Kenobi discovered that Ord Plutonia was home to a species of primitive bipedal sentient beings called the
. After some difficulties, Kenobi and Skywalker established contact with the Talz and assured them that they had come in peace. The Talz
wanted the Republic to leave his people in peace and to withdraw their presence from the planet. After the Jedi had made contact with the Talz tribe, C-3PO and Cho joined them in meeting with Thi-Sen. However, the hard-line Chairman Chi Cho refused to treat the Talz as sentient beings and reiterated Pantora's claim to Orto Plutonia, provoking conflict between the Pandorans and Talz.
The Jedi ended the fighting by convincing Senator Chuchi to contact the
, which gave her the authority to negotiate peace with the Talz and to relieve Chairman Cho of his authority. C-3PO and his companions then accompanied Senator Chuchi to the scene of the fighting. There, C-3PO helped Chuchi to broker a truce with Thi-Sen, ending the Pandoran-Talz conflict. As a result of the fighting, the Pandorans ceded sovereignty over Plutonia to the Talz.
With your permission, Senator Padmé, I would like to shut down before I get sensory overload.
―C-3PO and Amidala, while analyzing a captured Separatist tactical droid on Naboo
Following the discovery of a scouting party of Separatist battle droids on Naboo, C-3PO accompanied Senator Amidala and Representative Binks back to Naboo. Amidala had been summoned by Queen
, who wanted to procure more military aid from the Republic. C-3PO questioned a captured
, which had its photoreceptors removed. After convincing the droid that it was aboard a Separatist starship, C-3PO gleaned that there was a secret Separatist facility on Naboo producing some sort of virus before Jar Jar Binks accidentally destroyed the droid. Despite this setback, Binks and Amidala discovered a
and mud from a swamp, which led them to Naboo's
to examine data from the captured Separatist droids, Amidala and Binks ventured into the swamps and discovered a secret Separatist research facility headed by the
. Vindi was developing a deadly bioweapon called the
for the Separatists. C-3PO and Typho discovered a
of Dr. Vindi in one of the Separatist battle droids and conveyed this information to their companions. With the aid of a local Gungan farmer named
, Skywalker, Kenobi, Ahsoka Tano, and several
, Amidala and Skywalker succeeded in apprehending Dr. Vindi and stopping him from releasing his bioweapon.
When Senator Amidala was organizing a party for Senator
, she sent Threepio and R2-D2 to buy some
that Artoo had forgotten to buy for garnishing the
, the two droids grumbled and C-3PO was swindled by a fruit vendor. Following the purchase, another
approached C-3PO and R2-D2 and suggested that they visit
for a cosmetic overhaul. While R2-D2 visited the facility, C-3PO was kidnapped by the Separatist-aligned
Threepio was taken to Bane's hideout in an industrial district on Coruscant, where his
layout. While C-3PO's databank yielded no such information, he mentioned that his astromech counterpart R2-D2 might have the information. Bane's droid henchmen promptly kidnapped R2-D2 and brought him to Bane. After Bane extracted the necessary information from Artoo's databanks, he ordered that the two droids be given a
and returned to the place where they had been snatched.
Following the unpleasant shopping trip, C-3PO and R2-D2 returned to Amidala with their purchase. Both droids were completely unaware of what had befallen them. The jogan fruit was added to Senator Aang's dessert, as planned. Meanwhile, Bane delivered the plans from Artoo's memory banks to Jabba the Hutt on Tatooine. The Hutt crime lord ordered Bane to free his uncle Ziro from prison, since he knew information that would endanger the Hutts, who were nominally working with the Republic. Bane hatched a plan to rescue Ziro.
Following his kidnapping and mind-wipe, C-3PO and Senator Amidala were caught up in the
infiltrated the Senate Building and took Amidala, Threepio, Skywalker and several senators hostage in a bid to force a pardon for the imprisoned Ziro. These senators had been meeting to discussed the proposed
. Despite the Republic honoring Bane's demands, Bane planted several explosives in the hall with the aim of killing the senators. Skywalker saved the day by using his lightsaber to cut a hole around the group, moments before the explosives went off.
C-3PO advises Amidala and Rush Clovis on Cato Neimoidia.
C-3PO was briefly reunited with R2-D2 when the two droids accompanied their masters Senator Amidala and General Skywalker on a
and a delegate representing the InterGalactic Banking Clan in the Senate. The Jedi Council suspected that Clovis was secretly spying for the Separatists and sent Skywalker and Amidala to spy on him. During the journey, C-3PO noticed Skywalker's hostile behavior towards Clovis, who was trying to flirt with his secret wife Amidala.
Upon arriving on Cato Neimoidia, the delegation was greeted by the Trade Federation's Senator
, who tried unsuccessfully to force Clovis to lend more money for the Separatist cause. When Dod deduced that Clovis was infatuated with Senator Amidala, he arranged for her to be
during a formal dinner. Despite this, Amidala succeeded in stealing a
which confirmed that Clovis was indeed working for the Separatists. After Amidala began to succumb to the effects of the poisoning, C-3PO and a
attended to the Senator in her quarters.
Meanwhile, Clovis learned that Amidala was spying on him and went to confront her only to be cornered by Skywalker. Realizing that Skywalker loved Amidala, Clovis offered to get the antidote in return for receiving back the holodisk. C-3PO and his companions brought Amidala back to their ship but were cornered by Dod and his aides. Clovis attempted to bluff his way out, but Dod refused to let them leave. After Clovis pulled a blaster and forced Dod to hand over the antidote, C-3PO and his companions fled aboard Amidala's ship. They fled into space but left Clovis behind to face Dod alone.
As the Clone Wars dragged on, C-3PO continued serving Senator Amidala, who was becoming an active member of a group of Senators that supported diplomacy and opposed the expansion of the
. On one occasion, C-3PO accompanied Senator Amidala and Master Kenobi when they presented evidence in the Galactic Senate that the planet
wished to be neutral. As a result, the Senate rescinded an earlier vote calling for a military occupation of Mandalore.
Later, Senator Amidala and her supporters including the
and the Rodian Senator Onaconda Farr proposed a
bill calling for the reduction of military spending
. C-3PO attended several meetings of this informal peace coalition in Senator Amidala's office. On one such occasion, C-3PO was serving drinks when Senator Farr suffered an apparent heart attack and died. Threepio and Amidala attended the funeral of Senator Farr. Later, Amidala and Organa discovered that Farr had been poisoned by his aide,
, who blamed the late Senator for bringing the war to Rodia.
, Chancellor Palpatine ordered the Jedi Generals Windu and Skywalker to transport the
, a gargantuan monster that had been captured and sedated during the fighting. After learning that a lightsaber could not harm the beast, Palpatine enlisted the services of the scientist
to study the beast's scales in order to develop a new type of armor for the Grand Army. Palpatine also planned to kill the monster with
Senator Amidala learned about Palpatine's plan and arranged a meeting with Skywalker and Kenobi. During the meeting, C-3PO had another brief reunion with his astromech counterpart, R2-D2. Amidala succeeded in convincing her husband Skywalker and the delegation met with Chancellor Palpatine and
. However, the Zillo Beast escaped Boll's laboratory at the same time and proceeded to wreak havoc on the streets of Coruscant. Sensing that Palpatine was a Sith, the Zillo Beast made its way to the Galactic Senate building. C-3PO assisted in the evacuation of staff from the building and guided them to an executive ship that was piloted by a
C-3PO and R2-D2 escape from the rampaging Zillo Beast on Coruscant.
Before they could flee to safety, the ship was grabbed by the Zillo Beast, but Skywalker used his lightsaber to cleave the vessel in half, sending the bow along with C-3PO and the other passengers plummeting into the Senate Building. C-3PO hitched a ride aboard R2-D2, who had used a tow cable to attach himself to the other side of the building. However, R2-D2 was forced to rescue Chancellor Palpatine and activated his booster rockers, leaving C-3PO behind. The protocol droid lost hold of the cable and fell to the floor of the Senate building. Shortly thereafter, the Zillo Beast was killed by
. C-3PO survived the Zillo Beast incident and continued serving Senator Amidala.
R2, look out! Behind you! You're being followed by battle droids!"
"These are your troops? They're battle droids."
"What do you mean they've been reprogrammed to follow your orders?
while R2-D2 accompanied Anakin Skywalker and Master Kenobi on a
. C-3PO was initially alarmed when he saw R2-D2 flanked by three reprogrammed B1 battle droids. Threepio told R2-D2 not to get "uppity" about commanding new battle droids before parting company.
Hey Shiny! You two finished with those repairs on the computer system?
My good sir. You may not realize it, but we have been on quite an adventure.
―A clone trooper and C-3PO, while on Aleena
C-3PO and R2-D2 later took part in a mercy mission to the Mid Rim planet of
, which was experiencing a series of catastrophic global earthquakes. C-3PO served as the translator for the Republic mission led by
while his astromech counterpart Artoo-Detoo was tasked with interfacing with the equipment. Threepio's arrival coincided with a brief aftershock during which he tried to calm the local villages. When the aftershock stopped, the Aleena thought that the golden droid was some sort of divine messenger and asked the Republic soldiers to put the earth to rest, a request that Wolffe reluctantly had to acquiesce to.
During the mission, C-3PO translated while Wolffe explained the function of the Republic's delivered supplies to the
. Later, C-3PO accompanied R2-D2 and several clone troopers as they entered the local Republic communications station to survey and repair the damage caused by the earthquakes. There, the Aleena villagers led C-3PO and R2-D2 into a collapsed structure, which contained a huge golden seal embedded into the ground. The seal turned out to be the entrance to a tunnel that led to the subterranean regions of Aleen. When another earthquake struck the area, C-3PO and R2-D2 fell into the tunnel and were separated from the clone troopers.
While exploring the underground tunnels, C-3PO and R2-D2 encountered a species of sentient,
, who demanded that they leave since the surface dwellers "destroyed the peace." After C-3PO convinced the Kindalo that they bore no ill will and had come to help with the earthquakes, the Kindalo sent the droids to meet
, a reptilian humanoid with mystical powers. Orphne told the two droids that a mutual balance had previously existed between the Aleena and the subterranean world. Since Aleena's atmosphere was toxic to them, the underground dwellers depended on a filtering process of the planet's soil that made the air breathable for them. The underground dwellers had set off this earthquake as a means of sealing the breach.
When C-3PO agreed to help fix the damage, Orphne gave the droids a parting riddle. R2-D2 quickly deduced that Orphne was referring to a river and used the water seal to activate a water spout that sent the two droids and the chamber's central floor plate back to the surface. The two droids landed at the opening where they were greeted by a chanting crowd of Aleena. Recalling the riddle, Threepio quickly realized that only he and R2-D2 were able to seal the breach, which was in fact the unsettled seal. Together, the two droids closed the seal and brought an end to Aleena's earthquakes. While Wolffe and his clone troopers were skeptical of their story, the two droids' efforts were greatly appreciated by the Aleena.
C-3PO and R2-D2 encounter the pint-sized Patitites.
Following the events on Aleen, C-3PO and R2-D2 were caught up in a second adventure that took them to
. While traveling aboard the Jedi Master
's Star Destroyer, their starship was attacked by three Separatist cruisers led by General Grievous. C-3PO and R2-D2 escaped the stricken vessel aboard a
and crash-landed on the nearby planet of Patitite Pattuna.
On Pattuna, they were captured by the indigenous
, who brought them before their obese leader
. During their meeting, R2-D2 accidentally toppled the tyrannical overlord much to the joy of the Patitites, who released their prisoners and allowed the two droids to leave on their Y-wing. With their starfighter's power systems damage, C-3PO and R2-D2 landed on another planet called Balnab. The indigenous
captured the two droids and brought them before their leader, who turned out to be a holo-projection created by a group of rogue
. These pit droids had enslaved the Balnabs. After R2-D2 exposed the scam, the Balnabs rebelled against their droid overlords.
R2-D2 rescued C-3PO from the Separatist incinerator
C-3PO and R2-D2 took the opportunity to escape and resume their search for a replacement power unit for their Y-wing starfighter. Low on power, the two droids were captured by a band of
pirates, who wanted to use them as gladiators. However, the Weequay's pirate ship
was attacked by General Grievous' cruiser. During the bombardment, C-3PO and R2-D2 were sucked out of the
by a hull-breach. R2-D2 used his rocket boosters to bring him and C-3PO aboard Grievous' ship. Grievous ordered the two droids to be melted down in his incinerator but they were rescued by a Republic fleet led by Master
, who had come to rescue Master Gallia. C-3PO and R2-D2 were subsequently rescued by Plo Koon's forces and resumed their services to Senator Amidala and General Skywalker respectively.
in greeting R2-D2 and his Jedi companions Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi following their successful mission to rescue Supreme Chancellor Palpatine, who had been kidnapped by the Separatist
. C-3PO would continue serving Senator Amidala during the last days of the Galactic Republic and the
and piloted the skiff, allowing some reprieve for Amidala, who was distraught at her husband's turn to the
C-3PO and Senator Amidala near the end of the Clone Wars
Unknown to him and Amidala, Skywalker's former Master Obi-Wan Kenobi had stowed aboard the skiff. On Mustafar, Kenobi's presence enraged Skywalker, who
his wife. While Kenobi dueled his former Padawan, C-3PO and R2-D2 attended to the ailing Senator and brought her back aboard the skiff. After Kenobi defeated Skywalker, he and C-3PO piloted the skiff to
world, where she gave birth to twins, a boy named
, before passing away. While the Skywalker twins were spirited away to different locations to hide them from the Empire, C-3PO and R2-D2 passed into the ownership of Padmé's friend Bail Organa, the Senator for
. Due to Threepio's talkative nature, Senator Organa made arrangements for the protocol droid to receive a memory wipe in order to keep Leia's true parentage a secret.
Stay, Threepio. Watch the results with me.
―Bail Organa takes comfort in C-3PO's presence
C-3PO translates during a party for the House of Organa.
. Asked to stay by his side by Organa, who saw it as a way to honor Amidala, C-3PO believed watching the votes unfold with Organa as an enormous privilege and thanked the Senator for the honor, although Organa by that point was too focused on the countdown to listen. In the end, the act would pass, but it saw major vetoes from the Emperor shortly thereafter, curtailing its effectiveness and forcing Organa and Mon Mothma to look for other ways to oppose Palpatine.
after the Clone Wars, C-3PO served aboard Senator Organa's
. When R2-D2 returned from a solo mission to rendezvous with the former Jedi Padawan Ahsoka Tano and bring her to Senator Organa, C-3PO berated his astromech companion. Following the
, Ahsoka Tano subsequently joined Senator Organa's
's party for her sister's visit, C-3PO translated for the other guests.
I am C-3PO and this is my counterpart, R2-D2. I was translating for Minister Tua when we were attacked by thieves like, uh, you.
―C-3PO, introducing himself to the Spectres
, Senator Bail Organa sent C-3PO and his astromech counterpart R2-D2 to escort the Imperial
. Minister Tua wanted to obtain a shipment of
, illicit weapons which had been banned by the
. She intended to mass-produce the weapons on
, a formerly backwater Outer Rim world that had become a manufacturing base for the Empire. Since Tua could not speak the
, C-3PO was assigned the job of acting as her translator. Unknown to C-3PO, but known to R2-D2, their true mission was to prevent the T-7 ion disruptors from falling into Imperial hands.
C-3PO and R2-D2 on their mission to Garel
Upon arriving in Lothal, C-3PO and his companions boarded the
, which ferried them to Garel. Unknown to C-3PO, members of a
were also traveling on the shuttle. Two of rebels, the
created a noisy ruckus. Another rebel, the former
pretended to be irate and demanded that the petulant Chopper be sent to the back of the shuttle. The
complied, but in retaliation Bridger demanded that Tua's droids be sent to the back as well. Despite Tua's and C-3PO's protests, the protocol droid and his astromech counterpart were forced to move to the rear compartment.
Bereft of a translator, Tua was forced to turn to the
student fluent in Aqualish. However, Wren was also a member of the Lothalian rebel cell that was planning to deliver the shipment of weapons to the
. Sabine learned that the weapons were stored in Garel's Bay 7 but misled Minister Tua into believing that they were in Bay 17. After the shuttle landed in Garel's
, C-3PO and R2-D2 accompanied Minister Tua and a force of
to Bay 17. When they found nothing, C-3PO explained that Sabine might have accidentally mistranslated "Bay 7" as "Bay 17."
While traveling to Bay 7, C-3PO's counterpart R2-D2 was accosted by Chopper, who had been sent to distract the Imperials. Chopper rammed himself right into R2-D2, then shook his arm in apparent anger. In response, R2-D2 whipped out his electroshock prod, but did not use it as C-3PO ordered him to apologize. But Minister Tua recognized Chopper from the shuttle ride to Garel and ordered her stormtrooper guards to hurry to Bay 7. By the time they arrived at Bay 7, the Lothalian rebels were already loading the T-7 ion disruptors onto the
A blaster fight broke out, and in the ensuing confusion C-3PO and R2-D2 fled aboard the
, which fled into hyperspace. The two droids were then taken prisoner by the Lothalian rebels, who placed
The Lothalian rebels traveled back to Lothal to sell their stolen weapons to Vizago at a pre-arranged rendezvous point. Despite his restraining bolts, C-3PO managed to used the ship's intercom to contact the Imperial authorities, telling that he and his astromech counterpart had been kidnapped by "criminals." The
answered his transmission and promised that "help" was on the way. Using C-3PO's transmission to trace the
s coordinates, Agent Kallus brought an Imperial attack force consisting of a
, and several stormtroopers to the Lothalian rebels' meeting place. Mistaking the Imperials for "friends," C-3PO approached them but was fired upon and narrowly escaped disintegration. Meanwhile, R2-D2 helped the Lothalian rebels to overload and destroy the T-7 disruptors.
Following the brief skirmish, both droids and the rebels managed to escape their Imperial pursuers. The rebels also returned C-3PO and R2-D2 to their rightful owner, Senator Organa, who paid them some
for destroying the weapons. Due to the stress of his adventures at Garel and Lothal, C-3PO requested that he be allowed to rest for a while, which the Senator obliged. Senator Organa then questioned R2-D2 about the Lothalian rebels.
Scarif? They're going to Scarif? Why does nobody ever tell me anything, R2?
―C-3PO to R2-D2 as the Rebel Fleet leaves Yavin 4 for Scarif
capable of destroying entire worlds. C-3PO remarked how nobody told him anything.
―C-3PO, as he is thrust into the Galactic Civil War
The Alliance succeeded in stealing the plans for the superweapon. C-3PO and R2-D2 were later aboard Senator
, which was being pursued by Darth Vader's
. Unbeknownst to C-3PO, Darth Vader was actually his former master, Anakin Skywalker. The
was crippled by a laser blast from Vader's ship, and Imperial stormtroopers boarded the vessel. After
Leia managed to insert these secret plans and a holographic message for Master Kenobi into R2-D2, the two droids fled in an
After quarreling in the Jundland Wastes, the two droids separated. During his walk, C-3PO walked beside the skeleton of a
, who sold them to a family of moisture farmers; C-3PO was chosen as a moisture vaporator programmer and for having
among his languages, and recommended buying R2-D2 after the first chosen
had a motivator malfunction. This family turned out to be Owen Lars, his wife Beru, and their adopted nephew Luke Skywalker, the son of Anakin Skywalker. While C-3PO settled down to his new home, R2-D2 wanted to continue his mission to find Master Obi-Wan Kenobi. Unable to resolve their differences, R2-D2 escaped into the Jundland Wastes. Skywalker followed him in a
piloted by C-3PO and caught up with R2-D2. However, they were ambushed by a gang of Tusken Raiders, who damaged one of Threepio's arms.
C-3PO and his companions were rescued by Master Kenobi, who brought them to his dwelling. Kenobi revealed Skywalker's Jedi heritage and gave him his
, telling the boy that Anakin had been murdered by another apprentice named Darth Vader. After discovering Princess Leia's message in R2-D2's compartments, Kenobi attempted to persuade Luke to accompany him to Alderaan, Princess Leia's homeworld. Skywalker was initially reluctant until he discovered that Imperial stormtroopers had murdered his relatives and razed their moisture farm. Later, C-3PO and his companions traveled to the spaceport of
with the intention of finding passage to Alderaan.
Upon arriving in the settlement, they were stopped by a stormtrooper patrol. However, Kenobi used a Jedi
to convince the stormtroopers to give them free passage through the town. Kenobi and Skywalker entered
, while Threepio and R2-D2, forced to wait outside, wandered the streets of Mos Eisley and narrowly evaded a stormtrooper patrol. Later, all four boarded Han Solo's ship, the
Hang on tight, R2. You've got to come back. You wouldn't want my life to get boring, would you?
―C-3PO to R2, just before the Battle of Yavin
, C-3PO and his companions discovered that the Empire's Death Star had already destroyed the planet. The
was then trapped in the tractor beam of the Death Star. Hiding under the freighter's cargo compartments, they managed to ambush an Imperial scanning team and two stormtroopers. The rebels then seized control of an Imperial control room. While Threepio and R2-D2 stayed behind to watch the
, the other rebels split into two groups. Disguised as stormtroopers, Skywalker and Solo along with their Wookiee "prisoner" Chewbacca went to
to free Princess Leia. Meanwhile, Master Kenobi went to disable the tractor-beam projector.
C-3PO stands with his mistress, and Jan Dodonna during the Battle of Yavin.
Skywalker, Solo, and Chewbacca managed to free the Princess but ended up in a
. The Imperials quickly realized that the rebels were trapped in the garbage chute and proceeded to crush the chamber. Meanwhile, Threepio and R2-D2 narrowly escaped an Imperial patrol by claiming that the rebels had thrown them into the storage compartment. Once the Imperials had gone, the two droids were contacted by Skywalker, who ordered them to shut down the garbage compactor. R2-D2 succeeded in shutting down the garbage compactor just in time. However, amidst the muffled cries of joy over the
, Threepio initially believed that they had died. After grappling with more stormtroopers, the other rebels and the Princess managed to return to their hangar bay.
Master Kenobi shut down the tractor-beam projector but was cornered by his former apprentice, Darth Vader, on the way back. While Kenobi gave his life, C-3PO and the other rebels took the opportunity to flee the Death Star on the
, C-3PO and his companions escaped to the jungle moon of Yavin 4, where the rebels maintained a base. Using the Death Star plans stored in R2-D2's systems, the rebels discovered that the massive superweapon contained a weak point: an unprotected shaft. While Skywalker, R2-D2 and a Rebel strike force assailed the station, C-3PO remained with Princess Leia at the rebel command center on Yavin 4. Following the destruction of the Death Star, C-3PO was present at the victory parade where Skywalker, Solo, and two other rebel pilots including
were awarded for their courageous actions.
is being dismantled by native scavengers...
There's a blaster in the cockpit! Do whatever you have to do! Threepio!?
Several weeks after the Battle of Yavin, C-3PO was involved in the
in the galaxy—was the main target of the assault. Chewbacca and 3PO piloted the
through the debris fields that surrounded Cymoon 1, and landed in the huge
that fenced in the factory. Chewbacca left the relative safety of the
and hiked towards the factory, while 3PO stayed behind to wait for the signal to begin the
s autopilot when the team had achieved their objective of hacking into the main power core and rigging it to explode. The
would swoop in and pick up Han, Leia, Luke, and R2 while Chewbacca covered their retreat from a large metal structure that overlooked the rendezvous escape point—before he too escaped aboard the freighter.
The team was posing as an envoy from Jabba the Hutt, due to Han's previous ties to the crime lord. Leia (who was disguised as one of the Hutt's bodyguards) contacted 3PO and Chewbacca via comlink and notified them that they were entering the factory. 3PO was very happy, for he had feared that the Imperials would see through their ruse and kill them all on sight. 3PO also noted that the tide of war seemed to be in their favor after the destruction of the Death Star—3PO had a "very good feeling about this." A short time later Leia and Han contacted 3PO and let the droid know that the plan had moved to phase two. Han was worried about leaving 3PO alone on his ship, but 3PO assured him all was in working order—but was concerned that the old
continued to so easily be mistaken for garbage.
3PO received a comlink call several minutes later from Han, who told 3PO to start the autopilot so they could begin their escape. 3PO activated the autopilot—but nothing happened. About five minutes later Han again contacted the droid. 3PO told him what had happened. 3PO looked out of the
and go stop them. But 3PO was unsure of himself—he was but a protocol droid programmed for translation and etiquette.
3PO didn't act for several minutes until Leia once again got in contact with him. She told the droid that they were going to die if the
did not soon reach them. 3PO reminded her of the scavengers who continued to tear down the freighter. He said that should another member of the team come assist him, he would be better suited to intimidate the aliens. But Leia became angry and ordered the droid to "Do whatever you have to." 3PO gave in—for it was the House of Organa that he served. 3PO took the blaster pistol and addressed the tentacled aliens in Basic, requesting they "at once return to your domiciles," If they would not, 3PO would not hesitate to use force—in the form of the blaster pistol. The protocol droid fumbled and dropped the blaster, which fell at the feet of one creature. 3PO realized he'd made a mistake and surrendered. The creature examined it and shot 3PO in the chest. The super-heated gas did no real damage to 3PO's golden chest plate—but the kinetic energy of the blast blew off the droid's arms and legs. The aliens gathered up 3PO as Han called him and asked what he'd done to the
. The droid asked if he could "close down for a while..." But due to the droid's injuries, Han was unable to hear the golden droid as he was carried off by the tentacled aliens.
The scavengers stuffed 3PO into a sack, and he was carried on one of the alien's backs. As a result of the attack, 3PO sustained a memory relapse and believed himself to be talking with Captain Antilles. He requested a peaceful diplomatic mission from "Antilles" before the alien he was strapped to was hoisted into the air and thrown by the mighty Chewbacca. Chewbacca blasted the other scavengers while 3PO confessed to "Antilles" that he cared for neither action or adventure. The aliens fled while the Wookiee went to work repairing the damage they had caused to the
so he and the droid could go rescue the other team members, who were under attack by Darth Vader. 3PO heard through Chewbacca's comm, that Han and Leia were doomed. 3PO was just grateful his eye circuits were not connected so he wouldn't have to witness their deaths.
But they were not killed, for Chewbacca repaired the freighter, gathered up 3PO, and flew the
fled into hyperspace as the golden droid admitted to "Antilles" that the mission had been the strangest diplomatic mission he'd ever experienced.
and its complement rendezvoused with the Rebel Fleet
The team was treated for their wounds, and was debriefed by the Alliance leadership. Threepio was completely repaired by Alliance engineers. Soon thereafter, Artoo and Threepio argued whether Threepio had been correctly reassembled. Luke and Artoo left the Rebel Fleet to return to Tatooine.
Must I remind you of the trauma I experienced the last time we were here?
You may have been the one Dengar electrocuted, but it was traumatic for
Whilst on a mission to Nar Shaddaa, Threepio bore witness to a fight between Chewbacca and the bounty hunter Dengar.
Captured by SCAR Squadron and Rescued by R2-D2
looking for the hanger, but was captured by the notorious
He was later shown to Darth Vader who, despite having originally built the droid to help his mother and a reminder of his wife Padmé, told them to get rid of him, calling him useless junk. C-3PO had hope his friends would rescue him.
In a chamber aboard a Star Destroyer, he was strapped down to a dismantling table, where he was reunited with R2-D2. After getting free, the pair made their way to the X-wing in the hanger bay and escaped the Star Destroyer. But not before Darth Vader chased them and with the help of
, C-3PO escaped his captors and rejoined the rebels.
Stormtroopers? Here? We're in danger. I must tell the others. Oh, no! I've been shot!
C-3PO discovers the Imperial presence on Cloud City
Later, C-3PO and his rebel companions ended up on the icy planet of
, where the Rebel Alliance maintained a secret base known as
. When Skywalker did not return from a patrol, Threepio and R2-D2 were deeply worried about the safety of their master. Han Solo departed on a
to rescue Skywalker, who had been attacked by a
. When R2-D2 calculated that Skywalker had a very poor chance of survival in the frozen wilderness, C-3PO tried to cheer up the others by assuring them that R2-D2 had been known to make mistakes from time to time. The following day, Skywalker and Solo were rescued by a Rebel patrol of
While Skywalker recovered in the base hospital, C-3PO visited his master to wish him well. After Solo and Chewbacca encountered an
, the Rebel Alliance ordered a mass evacuation of their Hoth base. While the Rebels'
and ground forces held back the advancing Imperial fleet and ground forces, Rebel transports began fleeing the Imperial blockade into hyperspace. During the
, an Imperial ground invasion against the forces of Echo Base in the midst of the evacuation, Threepio fled through the halls with Solo and Organa,
though he was eventually spotted by some of Vader's
. Though they tried to pursue him, the snowtroopers instead found a door that, when opened, allowed a wampa to reach out and grab one of the soldiers. Unknown to them, the warning sign on this door had been ripped off. Sensing the rebels nearby, Vader led his troops after them
as Threepio, Han, and Leia, unable to reach the transport they had been running to, made their way to Chewbacca and the
to escape. When they were aboard, Vader,
having deduced Solo would lead them to the
led his troops into the hangar, though one of the freighter's turrets fired on the invading troops before the ship, with C-3PO and the others safely aboard, blasted off.
to catch the ship, believing he could use Luke Skywalker's friends to bring the young Jedi to him.
In space, learning they were unable to enter hyperspace, the
hid inside a deep cave, which turned out to be the innards of a giant
. While C-3PO and his fellow crew made repairs to the
, they encountered several parasitic creatures called
. Following an earthquake, the crew of the
fled the cave only to discover that they been hiding inside a space slug. Unable to jump into hyperspace, the
feigned a frontal attack on an Imperial Star Destroyer and hid behind the rear of the vessel's command tower. When Threepio protested their plan was suicide, Princess Leia switched him off. After escaping the Imperial fleet, the
Cloud City was run by an old friend of Han Solo called
, a former gambler and businessman. Upon landing, C-3PO attempted to greet Calrissian but was rudely brushed aside. While exploring Cloud City, he heard the familiar beep of an R2 unit only to stumble across several Imperial stormtroopers, who promptly disabled him with a
blaster. The Imperials gave C-3PO's body parts to several
garbage disposal workers, who attempted to dismantle him. However, Chewbacca arrived in the nick of time and rescued the protocol droid from being disintegrated. Soon thereafter, Threepio's rebel companions were betrayed by Calrissian, who handed them over to Darth Vader and the bounty hunter
Chewbacca worked to reassemble C-3PO while imprisoned.
While imprisoned, Chewbacca was able to repair C-3PO's head, torso, and arms. Before he could reattach the protocol droid's legs, the rebels were summoned by Vader to a carbon-freezing chamber. There, Darth Vader intended to test Cloud City's carbon-freezing technology on Han Solo as part of his plot to lure Skywalker to Bespin. Despite initial fears that the process would kill Han, Threepio was mollified when he learned that Solo was merely hibernating. Vader then ordered Threepio and the remaining rebels to be taken to his flagship, the
. However, Lando reneged on his deal with the Empire and freed C-3PO and his companions. Reuniting with R2-D2, C-3PO and his rebel companions fled Cloud City aboard the
, but not before warning the city's inhabitants that the Empire was occupying their city.
On the way out, the rebels also rescued Luke Skywalker, who had lost his hand during a duel with Darth Vader. R2-D2 continued repairing Threepio aboard the
but was forced to adjourn his repairs to fix the hyperdrive. After fixing the hyperdrive, the rebels escaped into hyperspace and linked up with the Rebel fleet.
C-3PO fell witness to the argument between Leia, Lando, and Chewbacca following the group's escape from Cloud City. Upon Calrissian's remark that they had all lost something that day, Threepio remarked that he had lost his arms and legs, much to the others' annoyance. After the
return to the rebel fleet, Threepio, alongside Leia, discovered that the Empire had found a way to break the Rebellion's codes.
While with the fleet, Threepio, along with R2-D2 and Princess Leia visited Skywalker in the medical bay on a rebel ship. They watched out the window as Lando Calrissian and Chewbacca departed on the
to rescue Solo from the bounty hunter Boba Fett.
's takeover of droids across the galaxy, C-3PO was among those infected.
While roaming Home One, he encountered his friend R2-D2. Under Scourge's influence he tricked the R2-unit into going to an airlock, he later ripped out the droid's communications and ejected the astromech out of the ship. He later made his way to Luke Skywalker startling him. He asked if droids can use the force.
To save his friend, R2-D2 assembled a new
Later, C-3PO and his rebel companions learned that Han Solo was in the hands of the Hutt crime lord Jabba, who lived in a well-fortified
on Tatooine. While Skywalker kept R2-D2 fully informed about his plans to rescue Solo, he kept Threepio in the dark because he knew of the protocol droid's inability to lie. C-3PO and R2-D2 traveled to Jabba's desert palace bringing a holographic message from Skywalker, who asked for Solo to be freed and offered the two droids as a gift. Jabba declined Skywalker's request and revealed that he had kept a carbonite Han on display as a trophy in his throne room. The two droids were dragooned in the Hutt crime lord's service; C-3PO ended up working as his
, while R2-D2 was relegated to working as a waiter on Jabba's sail barge
Because he's holding a thermal detonator!
Later, Jabba was visited by Princess Leia, posing as the bounty hunter
, who presented a captive Chewbacca. Unknown to Jabba, this was a ruse by Leia to infiltrate the castle and free Han from carbonite. Threepio served as a translator when Boushh and Jabba negotiated the sum for Chewbacca's bounty. After a near confrontation involving a
, Jabba and Boushh reached a compromise sum. After Chewbacca was taken to Jabba's cells, Leia briefly spoke with C-3PO and commended him. That night, Leia freed Han from carbonite, only for both of them to be captured by Jabba and his minions.
The following day, Skywalker visited Jabba's palace and demanded that he free Han and his companions. Jabba refused and had Skywalker thrown down into his
pit. However, Skywalker killed the rancor, prompting an enraged Jabba to order that Skywalker, Solo, and Chewie be fed to the
. Before Skywalker could be thrown to the beast, R2-D2 managed to pass
to him. Following a struggle, the rebels killed Jabba and most of his entourage. During the fighting, C-3PO was attacked by Jabba's pet
, who damaged one of his photoreceptors. R2-D2 rescued him. He and R2-D2 then dived into the Dune Sea. They were retrieved by their rebel companions, who fled the scene on a stolen
―C-3PO explains the Rebel Alliance's plight against the Galactic Empire.
C-3PO tells the Ewoks about the struggle of the Rebellion against the Empire
After rescuing Han Solo, C-3PO and his companions participated in a rebel mission to destroy the
spies, the Rebel leadership had learned that Emperor Palpatine would be visiting the Death Star to oversee the final stages of its completion. In response, the Rebel leader
had marshaled the Rebel fleet for a massive strike against the Imperial leadership. Since the second Death Star was protected by a
, a rebel force would have to infiltrate Endor and knock it out so that the Rebel fleet could destroy it.
C-3PO along with his companions R2-D2, Han Solo, Princess Leia, Luke Skywalker, and Chewbacca took part in this Rebel mission to infiltrate Endor. Using a stolen
, the rebels landed on Endor. They soon encountered several Imperial
, and Princess Leia was separated from the group during the struggle. C-3PO accompanied Han, Skywalker, and Chewbacca as they searched the forest for Leia. However, they stumbled into a trap laid by the
, a species of sentient furry bipeds native to Endor. The Ewoks had already befriended Leia and welcomed her as a guest. Believing that Threepio was a god, the Ewoks attempted to sacrifice Solo, Skywalker, Chewbacca, and Artoo. When Threepio failed to dissuade the Ewoks, Skywalker used the Force to cause Threepio's throne to levitate. Fearing that they had angered their god, the Ewoks promptly released their prisoners.
Later that night, C-3PO convinced the Ewoks to fight on the side of the Rebels against the Imperial presence on Endor. The following day, C-3PO and R2-D2 took part in the Rebel assault on the
. However, the rebel force was quickly captured by the Imperial garrison. C-3PO and R2-D2 managed to evade capture. Under orders from R2-D2, Threepio exposed his position to the Imperials. Shortly, the Ewoks attacked the Imperial forces massed outside the shield generator. However, the Imperials managed to seal off the shield generator and launched a devastating counterattack with
. Meanwhile in space, the Rebel fleet was trapped between the Death Star and an Imperial fleet.
C-3PO and his companions celebrating the Rebel victory at Endor
During the fighting, Threepio and R2-D2 made their way to the shield generator's blast door, where Han and Leia were attempting to breach it. R2-D2 attempted to access the power socket but was blasted by enemy fire, causing him to short-circuit. Threepio, Han, and Leia were then cornered by stormtroopers, but Leia managed to shoot them. Meanwhile, Chewbacca and two Ewok warriors turned the tide of the battle by hijacking an AT-ST walker and using it to destroy the others. Using the hijacked AT-ST, the rebels tricked the remaining Imperial troops into opening the shield generator. After storming the bunker, the rebels planted explosives, which destroyed the energy field protecting the Death Star. This enabled the Rebels to destroy the Death Star along with Emperor Palpatine, Darth Vader, and several Imperial ships. Following the
, Threepio took part in the victory celebrations at
In the morning after the Battle of Endor, C-3PO was present at Bright Tree Village when Han Solo and the
traveled to the far side of Endor to attack an
Later, Threepio accompanied Han and Chewbacca on a
on an Imperial Security Bureau black site at the
. After the Pathfinders secured the base, C-3PO accessed the Imperial data files and uncovered
, a posthumous order by the Emperor to devastate various worlds following his demise.
How many Centrist speakers have there been now?
Seventeen, all of whom addressed irregular protocol during the dedication ceremony. I must say, their attention to these points of etiquette seems . . . excessive.
―C-3PO was a member of Leia's senatorial staff
C-3PO continued serving Leia Organa following the Battle of Endor, and at some point, had his silver lower right leg replaced with a more gold one, becoming fully golden once more. The Rebel Alliance was transformed into the New Republic, which became the dominant galactic government following the
. The Galactic Empire disintegrated with the remnants of the Empire retreating into the
's rule, 3PO continued serving Leia, who was appointed head of the
, Leia learned of a court martial hearing scheduled against
, took off to investigate the destination of a
. Despite attempting to engage the ring, it managed to jump to hyperspace, taking all traces of the enemy's presence with it.
The deaths of New Republic pilots in an unsanctioned mission, as well as the lack of any evidence supporting Syndulla's claims led the Senate to dispatch three
cruisers to apprehend the General and bring her back to Coruscant for interrogation, leading Leia to discover the incident herself. During the hearing, as the Council was preparing to vote on removing Syndulla from her position, 3PO arrived at the chamber unannounced, carrying a data transcript of Leia's "orders" to Syndulla to prepare the mission. Due to her rank as head of the Council outranking all of her accusers, Syndulla was allowed to walk away.
, C-3PO served Senator Organa as an aide at the New Republic's
. The Populists favored greater autonomy while their main opponents, the
ceremony to dedicate a statue of Bail Organa
, the late adopted father of Leia. The following day, Threepio attended a senatorial meeting where Senator Leia and a Centrist Senator named
. When C-3PO reminded Leia that proper protocol dictated that a junior senator always be the one to call upon the senior senator, Leia, a senior senator, responded that she would ignore protocol and initiate contact.
Threepio accompanied Senator Organa, her entourage, and Senator Casterfo on Leia's personal starship
. Prior to the Organa and Casterfo's meeting with
, the protocol droid offered to record any conversations for posterity and assured them that he was fluent in seven million forms of communication. During the
, Leia was kidnapped by Rinnrivin, who attempted to bribe the Senator, but was rescued by Casterfo.
After the Centrists passed a motion to create a new powerful office called
, C-3PO encouraged his master Leia not to resign from the Senate. He was also present during a meeting of Populist senators when Leia reluctantly agreed to stand as the Populist nominee for First Senator. Later, the protocol droid ushered several visitors into Leia's office including a group of lobbyists from the
Association of Small Craft Manufacturers
, several Populist senators from the Outer Rim, and the Senator
for meetings with Leia. During the last meeting, Leia agreed to support Lady Carise's claim for the
due to her lack of interest in royal titles.
C-3PO later accompanied Senator Organa on a trip to Ryloth to search the
for information about Rinnrivin and his cartel. During the trip, Threepio greeted Emissary
, whom he had first encountered during his time at
. The protocol droid recalled that the two had once worked together recalibrating the thermal units at the base precisely five days after they had arrived on Hoth. Yendor recalled working with C-3PO before entertaining Leia and her other staff members
. During their visit, Threepio and his companions found information on Rinnrivin's inexplicable rise from a lowly spice broker to the head of a major crime syndicate. They suspected that Rinnrivin was a front for other forces seeking to destabilize the New Republic.
We'll want to slice into the central computer core. That's not Threepio's speciality, but his programming is more than adequate for the task. There are other droids we could bring, but I'd rather stick with the one I know and trust.
Okay, but even as old as he is, Threepio looks too nice for pilots as broke as we're supposed to be.
―Joph Seastriker and Senator Organa debating C-3PO's role in the Sibensko mission
After leaving Ryloth, Joph convinced a reluctant C-3PO to help him and Korr download information from one of Rinnrivin's satellites. As a result, they found that Rinnrivin was hiding on the
's gala, C-3PO accompanied his master to
, where Leia arranged for a private meeting with Rinnrivin on neutral ground. While approaching Hosnian Prime, the protocol droid helped Senator Organa sift through her communiques, starting with the high-priority messages. One of these messages was from Senator Casterfo, who had been investigating a paramilitary group known as the
Later, C-3PO convinced Leia to delay her trip to Sibensko so that she could prepare for a Senate hearing on her nomination for First Senator. After an animated discussion, Leia accepted Threepio's advice and set the droid to work planning their trip. While Leia, her entourage, and Casterfo were planning their secret Sibensko trip, C-3PO pointed out that Leia's husband, Han Solo, was an occasional consumer of
, a popular beverage. Later, Greer treated C-3PO to an
. After Leia's true parentage as Darth Vader's daughter was exposed during the Senate hearing, C-3PO received orders not to let anyone into Leia's office with the exception of close friends. He also prepared Leia's
for his master to send a heartfelt message to her son
, who hitherto had been unaware of his true ancestry.
After Senator Organa obtained leave from the Senate, C-3PO aided her
housing the Amaxine base. For that mission, Leia posed as an indentured servant of Joph and
while Threepio pretended to be her guard. During the mission, C-3PO obtained banking records proving that the Amaxine Warriors and another mysterious entity were funnelling considerable funds into Rinnrivin's cartel. The protocol droid also discovered that the Amaxines had a large base in the underwater city. Leia instructed C-3PO to return with the data to Joph and Greer while she went to spy on the Amaxine base.
While Threepio left with Joph and Greer on their freighter, Leia headed into the Amaxine base only to be cornered by the Amaxines. She managed to escaped with Han on a racer before an explosion from a fallen starfighter destroyed the underwater city and the base, destroying much of the physical evidence linking the Amaxines and Rinnrivin's cartel. Despite this setback, Leia's tram succeeded in neutralizing a threat to the New Republic. Leia later presented the information from C-3PO's databanks to a special Senate hearing. While Leia was greeted with much hostility and disbelief, Senator Casterfo supported her by sharing evidence from his trip to Daxam IV.
Later, Threepio ushered in Senator Casterfo for a private audience with Leia. The two had fallen out after Casterfo had exposed Leia's true parentage at the instigation of Lady Carise, who was secretly working for the First Order. Casterfo had regained Leia's trust and respect after he had spoken in support of her during the recent Senate hearing. Having withdrawn her nomination for First Senator, Leia made preparations to resign from the Galactic Senate.
C-3PO found himself in the service of the
, a military force founded by Leia Organa to combat the First Order. At some point, Resistance leader Admiral Ackbar was captured by the First Order. In an attempt to rescue Ackbar, the Resistance sent a team led by Captain
. The team captured a First Order protocol droid named
, referred to as Omri, who was believed to know where Ackbar was. However, the ship carrying the team crashed on
. The crash killed all organic beings on board, leaving only Threepio, Omri, the
Shortly after the crash, the droids picked up a homing beacon signal from what they presumed was a crashed First Order vessel. Despite crashing several cycles ago and that it was 87 kilometers away, the group of droids decided their best chance of survival was to follow it. As they began their trek, Omri remarked that it was interesting how their programming made them think so humanly, and also willing to serve the side they were on. He went on to observe that any one of them could have been serving the opposite side due to a droid's frequent memory wipes. While on their way to the vessel, they were attacked by
. Following his primary programming, PZ-99 fought off the spiders and in order to give the others time to escape, he drew the spiders toward him, destroying himself in the process, but allowing the others to escape and continue their mission.
As they continued walking, Omri stated that he felt protocol droids such as he and Threepio were cursed to having their memories wiped, due to their need for an extra level of sentience. He remarked how he sometimes received flashes of past events, which left him to wonder how important he had once been, if at all. Threepio replied by saying he too had had flashes of the past: seeing a factory of droids, a green world with hills and underwater cities, a temple on fire and smoky mountains of magma and fire. Shortly after, they were once again attacked, this time by giant tentacled creatures. They began by ripping Toomedtoo apart and destroying CO-34. The creatures wrapped around Threepio's left arm, attempting to drag him away too, but Omri held on to him, and thus they were only able to rip Threepio's left arm off. Almost immediately after, a group of
swarmed towards the remaining three droids. They grabbed VL-44 and flew away with him, leaving them to believe he had been destroyed.
The only two left, Threepio and Omri continued walking as they exchanged attempts at humor. The two expressed that they wished that they were on the same side. Eventually, they finally found two crashed
. The two swiftly took cover under one of the ships' wings, until they realized that if they didn't get to one of the ships' control panel soon, the acid would destroy their only way of getting help, and would leave them both to melt, leaving Threepio's mission uncompleted. Omri told C-3PO that there was nothing in his directive telling him to prevent him from completing his mission and transferred Admiral Ackbar's location to him. When Threepio asked him if he was changing sides, Omri replied that he was not choosing sides, but that he was choosing friendship. With that, he started walking towards the ships' control panel in the acid rain, as he stated he would change the frequency to summon Threepio's master, so that at least he could survive. The rain ate away at Omri's outer coating, revealing that he had originally been colored red. He was able to send a distress signal to
, although the acid rain caused his body to disintegrate, leaving only his left arm behind.
C-3PO used Omri's arm to honor his fallen comrades.
After Dameron arrived and rescued C-3PO, Omri's left arm was used to replace Threepio's missing arm. Threepio told Dameron's astromech
that while his new arm offended his aesthetic sensibilities, he would keep it for a while to remember his fallen friends.
Sometime after receiving his new arm, he also received an update to his
, allowing fluency in over seven millions forms of communication, one million more than previously.
, C-3PO accompanied General Organa when she went to greet Poe Dameron and his fellow pilots
. C-3PO complied with Organa's orders to examine the flight computers aboard the
, the captured luxury yacht of the New Republic Senator
. While examining the computers, C-3PO confirmed General Organa's lingering suspicions that Senator Ro-Kiintor had indeed been secretly colluding with the First Order. In addition, the protocol droid found information relevant to Leia's quest to find her missing brother, Luke Skywalker. Using this information, General Organa sent Poe Dameron on a mission to find
, General Leia tasked C-3PO and his spy network with ferreting out the
I am indeed flattered, sir, as I am a mere protocol droid, and—
Shut up. You're my competition. We're both spymasters. You work for Organa and I work for Snoke. I know exactly who you are, and I know the kind of secrets you're carrying around in your memory unit. You're probably more valuable than Dameron.
As General Organa's spymaster, C-3PO was charged with
discovered purportedly valuable First Order intelligence on the crime haven world of
, General Organa tasked C-3PO with investigating the matter. Since they had lost contact with the droid, C-3PO visited Poe Dameron to request the Resistance starfighter pilot's help in traveling to Kaddak and retrieving the data. Under Organa's orders, C-3PO instructed Poe to bring himself and another pilot in a shuttle to avoid attracting attention. Unable to trust his fellow pilots due to the presence of a spy, Poe picked the technician
and his astromech droid BB-8. C-3PO and the team departed in a freighter.
Upon landing on Kaddak, C-3PO and the others witnessed a man being thrown to his death. While visiting a
, C-3PO commented about the presence of criminal factions and wished that his old friend, Han Solo were here. As a result, the
teamed up to kill hunt down the smuggler. C-3PO also encountered a
who informed him that their spy droid had been captured by the
. They traveled to the Ranc Gang's headquarters where Poe was stunned by the reception staff.
C-3PO, Oddy, and BB-8 were surrounded by several gangsters, who wanted to take Poe and destroy them. C-3PO outmaneuvered the gangsters by activating several droid spies, who forced the gang to stand down. The droids also rescued N1-ZX. Despite C-3PO's orders, N1-ZX refused to release the information he was carrying until he was safely returned to the Resistance base due to his embedded self-preservation programming. Later, Terex, who had retaken control of the Ranc Gang, flew over Kaddak in his starship
and issued a bounty on Poe's head. With the help of BB-8, Poe activated several Resistance droid spies, who proceeded to block the mob. Despite Oddy Muva's disappearance, the group fled aboard Poe's
. C-3PO and N1-ZX hid in consoles that were built into the fighter's
After fleeing into space, Poe asked C-3PO if he had any luck contacting Oddy Muva. C-3PO apologized that he had not. Poe decided to get N1-ZX back to the Resistance base. C-3PO remarked that he regarded traveling through hyperspace while attached to a starship as a nightmarish experience. Regarding Kaddak as "bad news," C-3PO opined that he hoped that Master Muva was not in any sort of danger. In fact, Oddy Muva had stowed aboard Terex's ship
. Terex had blackmailed Muva into spying on the Resistance using his wife as a hostage.
C-3PO and Poe Dameron were pursued by the Ranc Gang.
During the hyperspace journey, Poe confided in C-3PO his suspicions that there was a spy among their ranks. Poe ruled out General Organa and his Black Squadron mates. C-3PO vouched for General Organa and reassured Poe that she was not a traitor. Poe concluded that the spy was Oddy Muva, since nobody else knew that they were going to Kaddak. Poe decided that they could not risk bringing Nunzix back to
and told C-3PO to wake him up. C-3PO complied, and Poe questioned N1-ZX about the data he was carrying. After exiting hyperspace, they were pursued by Terex's ship
." Poe's X-wing was hit and crash-landed on a
C-3PO and the others survived the crash, but Nunzix's right arm was severed. The droids and Poe fled into a cave to escape Terex's "Uglies." Terex soon led a landing party into the cave. BB-8 tried to delay the Ranc Gang by crashing a stalactite on top of the intruders. After BB-8 was shot down, C-3PO volunteered to stay behind in order to slow down the Ranc Gang so that Poe and N1-ZX could retreat. He reassured Poe that he was expendable and could be rebuilt. When Terex and his gang arrived, C-3PO used his knowledge of languages to summon the
in the cave to harry the pirates, claiming they had come to steal their
. Terex retaliated by shaking C-3PO's right leg off. Having found his equivalent spymaster, Terex stole C-3PO's memory unit, disabling the droid.
In C-3PO's absence, Black Squadron arrived to rescue Poe and
Terex's criminal fleet in space. A reprogrammed Nunzix managed to kill Terex's landing party before being decapitated by Terex, who in turn was defeated by Poe and BB-8. Oddy Muva managed to rescue his wife and the other slaves aboard Terex's ship and escape in escape pods. First Order forces under
subsequently arrived and destroyed Terex's fleet. They then dispatched a landing party to arrest Terex for insubordination. Poe dragged the inactive C-3PO and the defeated Terex out of the cave. Poe allowed Malarus to arrest Terex.
C-3PO with R2-D2 and BB-8 shortly after R2's awakening
as Organa, speaking over the intercom for Dameron, who was joined by New Republic pilot
, to immediately report to the general after he returned from a
, C-3PO had neglected to turn on BB-8's tracking device before the droid went on a vital mission to
with Poe Dameron. When the droid went missing, Threepio alerted the droid spynet to keep an eye out for BB-8.
, C-3PO was part of the Resistance team that arrived to pick them up. As Han Solo was reunited with Leia, C-3PO interrupted them before they had the chance to speak to each other, eagerly introducing himself, stating that Solo must not recognize him because of the red arm. Not realizing they had already seen each other, Threepio went to re-introduce Leia, before noticing he had ruined the moment. Threepio then decided it was best to leave them to talk to each other, walking off with BB-8, who asked him if he must get his proper arm reinstalled, and he replied "Yes."
After returning to Resistance Base on D'Qar, C-3PO found BB-8 observing R2-D2, who had been in self-imposed low power mode ever since Luke went into hiding. Threepio told him it was no use trying to wake him up, and it was very unlikely he would have the rest of the map to find Luke Skywalker stored in his backup data. Shortly after the Battle of Starkiller Base, R2-D2 awoke from his low-power mode, discovering he indeed had the map to Skywalker, to Threepio and BB-8's excitement and shock. Before
left to travel to the system they had found Luke Skywalker on, Threepio had replaced his left arm, and now once again sported golden plating.
Wipe that nervous expression off your face, Threepio.
Oh. Well, I will certainly try, General. [...]
―Leia Organa and C-3PO, during the Evacuation of D'Qar
After the successful attack on Starkiller Base, the Resistance lowered their guard at the Resistance base, expecting they weren't going to live out the day. However, as they resumed their activities, C-3PO received a transmission, which depicted the
regrouping, causing him to urgently contact Organa and inform her to go to the command center as soon as she could. When asked by Organa how much time they had before the First Order's arrival, Threepio answered that it was very little and that they would be there before they knew it. Realizing that the base was unshielded and that if the First Order brought enough firepower the base would be destroyed, Organa ordered the Resistance's
During the evacuation, Threepio was on the bridge of the
After escaping the First Order at D'Qar, the Resistance was
. During this time, Threepio was still on the
Threepio was present on the secondary bridge when Vice-Admiral
was named the new commander of the fleet, expressing concern when informed that all Resistance senior leadership on the bridge save Leia had perished in the attack. Threepio spent time watching over Leia as she recovered from her injuries. Threepio and was present in the medical bay when Poe sent Finn and
. Threepio warned Dameron that Holdo would never authorize their plan.
and became an unwilling participant in Poe's mutiny against Holdo. Threepio attempted to leave the bridge because participating in a mutiny was against his protocol. Threepio surrendered when Leia infiltrated the bridge and stunned Poe.
Sir, it is possible that a natural unmapped opening exists. But this facility is such a maze of endless tunnels that the odds of finding an exit are 15,428—
Per Holdo's plan to allow the Resistance to survive, Threepio boarded a cloaked
along with the other surviving Resistance fighters. The Resistance planned to use an
on the planet to send a signal for help to the Outer Rim. Owing to Holdo's sacrifice, Threepio's transport was one of the six that survived the First Order's attack and reached the planet's surface safely.
On Crait, Threepio interpreted BB-8's analysis of the mine's schematics, determining that the massive bunker door was the only way in or out of the base. After the Resistance's
failed and the bunker door was breached, Threepio witnessed a
of Luke Skywalker emerge from the shadows of the base. A shocked Threepio was only able to say the legendary Jedi's name, and Luke winked at him in response.
Shortly after, Threepio realized that his audio sensors could no longer detect the
, and along with the rest of the Resistance, he followed Poe to an unmapped natural opening, blocked by boulders, that the wildlife of Crait used to access the base. Threepio looked on as Rey used the Force to move the boulders out of the way, allowing the Resistance to escape on board the
, where Threepio was reunited with R2-D2.
Following the Battle of Crait and having escaped from the First Order aboard the
, C-3PO found R2-D2 and BB-8 talking in a hallway. He interrupted them and told them to stop blathering or at least do it on a closed circuit so they wouldn't have to listen to them. He commented about the heavy losses of the Battle of Starkiller Base and told the two droids he was involved in a very important project and they were making it extremely difficult for him to concentrate. As the two droids departed, C-3PO told Rey, who was reading one of the Jedi Order's
, that he had dealt with the droids and they wouldn't bother them any further before asking her where they had gone.
Rey asked C-3PO to translate a paragraph in one of the
. Finding the translation initially a bit difficult due to the fact the language used was unusual, Threepio took the book and translated the text, leading Rey to comment that she liked the passage and that it was a lovely place to begin. Later, upon receiving a transmission from Black Squadron from one of their
, C-3PO went to report the transmission to Dameron and Finn, to which Dameron explained to Finn that they just needed to have a little faith. However, due to Dameron's excitement over the news, C-3PO reported that Dameron needed to listen to the message as he wouldn't call it good news.
. C-3PO later travelled to Mon Cala along with Rose, Rey, and Chewbacca
to convince its people to support aid for the Resistance. When they arrived, however, they were confronted by
, C-3PO remained behind at the Falcon when he and the others were attacked by representives. He was later captured and placed in a pod and was brought before the king.
If this mission fails, it was all for nothing. All we've done. All this time.
Taking one last look, sir… at my friends.
―C-3PO, to Poe Dameron and his other friends, before having his memory wiped
C-3PO informed the Resistance that Exegol was not on any star map
C-3PO and the Resistance eventually established themselves on the jungle world of
. After learning of the return of Darth Sidious and that he was based on the planet
, which R2 and him stated was not on any star map, C-3PO travelled with Rey, Finn, Chewbacca, and Poe Dameron to
, where they encountered C-3PO and Chewbacca's old friend Lando Calrissian. During his time on Passanna the group recovered the
, a Sith dagger. While C-3PO was able to translate the writings on the Sith dagger, his programming prevented him from being able to reveal the translation to anyone.
C-3PO's photoreceptors turned red while he translated the Sith writings on the Blade of Ochi of Bestoon
was able to determine how to bypass C-3PO's programming restrictions, but said doing so would cause C-3PO to undergo a complete
. C-3PO willingly allowed Frik to perform the procedure, believing that this would result in the permanent loss of his memories as he didn't think R2-D2 had a backup of his memory. C-3PO's
on the dagger. After completing the translation C-3PO rebooted, and his memory was wiped in the process, leaving him to restart with his basic factory programming.
Upon the group's return to Ajan Kloss, it turned out that R2-D2 had backed up C-3PO's memories. R2-D2 was able to restore his counterpart's memories from that backup. During the
gathered by Calrissian and Chewbacca, defeated the
. When the Resistance and civilian fleet gathered at Ajan Kloss, C-3PO was with R2 when Rey landed aboard
. When he heard the X-wing's approach, he asked R2 if he heard the same, the very same question
he had asked his astromech droid friend decades earlier above Tatooine.
C-3PO was eventually able to recover memories from his past.
At some point, C-3PO was able to recover at least some of the memories he lost in 19 BBY,
including how he had been built by Anakin Skywalker, the story around the Invasion of Naboo, and how he met R2-D2
One day, C-3PO introduced himself, R2-D2, and BB-8 to another party, explaining in the process they had gone through many adventures and remarking that their missions had impacted the fate of the galaxy on several occasions. Agreeing with R2-D2 that their adventures were rarely easy, C-3PO was asked by BB-8 how he had met R2-D2 in the first place, to which C-3PO began to explain the story around the Naboo Crisis, which he promised would be fascinating.
Beginning the story by explaining the Republic Era and how the greedy Trade Federation had launched a blockade against the world of Naboo, C-3PO introduced BB-8 to Qui-Gon Jinn and Obi-Wan Kenobi, explaining how they represented the peace and just-upholding Jedi Order, whereas he had much less kind things to say about the Federation. Continuing the story and revealing the role Darth Sidious had played in the blockade and how he ordered the deaths of both Jedi, something that scared BB-8, C-3PO questioned how a droid could be programmed for murder as he relayed the deployment of Federation battle droids against the Jedi, then assured BB-8 that the protocol droid
gas Viceory Gunray pumped into the room where Jinn and Kenobi were kept waiting. As he relayed the Jedi duo's fight towards the vessel's control bridge, R2-D2 spoke up, expressing how much he wanted to own a lightsaber, something C-3PO admitted he was happy had not come to pass.
After Jinn and Kenobi had been rerouted and decided to sneak down to the surface in
, and after C-3PO needed to interrupt the tale again to assure BB-8 the small droid was also skilled at hiding on ships, C-3PO introduced Jar Jar Binks, whom he claimed had rambled as much as R2-D2, to which R2-D2 countered that C-3PO was the one rambling. While annoyed, C-3PO continued after asking R2 to quiet down and admitted Binks was not the most useful of guides, with the Jedi duo's journey bringing them from the Gungan city to the Naboo planet core, where a
submarine, much to C-3PO's confusion as he did not know why an animal would want to eat such a vessel. Nonetheless, he carried on, continuing all the way to the Jedi duo's escape from Naboo with Queen Amidala and her entourage; the destruction of so many battle droids during the event upset both C-3PO and BB-8, but C-3PO assured BB-8 they had been "bad droids" who followed orders to hurt people, whereas the three of them tried to help others.
As C-3PO continued the story with the escape of the Royal Naboo Starship into space, he introduced R2-D2's role in the event as he had repaired parts of the damaged vessel. While it was R2-D2's favorite part of the tale, C-3PO remarked that he was not sure why Amidala was so pleased with R2-D2, as he had not repaired the entire ship. C-3PO continued the tale with the group's journey to Tatooine, where he and R2-D2 finally met in the home of the young Anakin and his mother, Shmi Skywalker. C-3PO also took time to explain how worlds in the Outer Rim were able to ignore Republic anti-slavery laws and was annoyed by R2-D2's recollection of his lack of plating. Confessing that he thought Sebulba the podracer was better at cheating than he was racing, C-3PO relayed the role of the Boonta Eve Classic in the tale next, growing annoyed with how Sebulba cheated and promising BB-8 he had more stories to come about the gangster Jabba the Hutt, who had overseen the race. Following Anakin's victory, C-3PO relayed his departure from Tatooine, promising BB-8 he would see why it was so important for Skywalker to become a Jedi, even if it was sad for his mother Shmi.
C-3PO was quite pleased that BB-8 did not know where to get an ascension gun when the smaller droid became enthralled by their usage on Naboo (pictured).
After detailing Jinn's duel against the Sith Lord Darth Maul in the Tatooine desert and the first between Skywalker and Kenobi, both of which R2-D2 interrupted with his own commentary, C-3PO introduced BB-8 to the planet Coruscant and the Jedi prophecy of the Chosen One, who Jinn believed Skywalker to be. Following the Galactic Senate's Vote of No Confidence in Supreme Chancellor Valorum,
which played a vital role in then-Senator Palpatine's rise to power,
C-3PO explained the team's return to Naboo and asked R2-D2 to take heed of Jinn's advice to watch and be mindful of the moment. Pleased with Amidala's cleverness in how she had switched places with her handmaiden
, C-3PO relayed how the native Gungans and the Naboo had allied together to oust the occupying Trade Federation, further promising BB-8 that the frightening Darth Maul would be dealt with by the story's end. As the Gungans fought the Trade Federation Droid Army in the Great Grass Plans, the Naboo had made their way to the capital of Theed and scaled the side of the Royal Palace with ascension guns, with C-3PO informing BB-8 he had no idea where the small droid could find such a weapon and that he was happy for it.
As C-3PO relayed the story of the Gungan army's retreat from the Droid Army, something he did not blame them for, he revealed the entire army was shut down when Skywalker—aboard an
with R2, whom C-3PO was shocked had allowed such a reckless event to take place—destroyed the Droid Control Ship in orbit. All the same, C-3PO claimed he would never forgive R2-D2 for endangering their young master in the battle by flying with him and disagreed with BB-8's assessment that the event was an exciting adventure. Promising to stop if BB-8 found the story too scary, C-3PO then relayed Jinn and Kenobi's duel with Maul, which ended with Jinn dead at Maul's hands
with the defeated Sith tumbling into a pit below. C-3PO commended Kenobi for his abilities and also assured BB-8 that a deceased Jedi would pass into the Force, meaning they were not truly gone. Finishing his tale by explaining how Kenobi took Skywalker as his Padawan and the Jedi Order's fears about the remaining Sith Lord, explaining to BB-8 the idea behind the Rule of Two in the process, C-3PO concluded the tale with the post-invasion celebration through Theed and promised BB-8 that Skywalker would then begin a journey that changed the galaxy forever. Wrapping up, C-3PO admitted the tale had been excited and was eager to share more about their lives to BB-8, promising him the Naboo Crisis had only been the beginning of the tale.
It's all right, sir. I'm only a droid. I am expendable. I can always be rebuilt. You, however, cannot.
I don't know how things got to this point, Threepio... but thank you.
C-3PO was known for his polite, fastidious, and worry-prone personality. As a droid, he exhibited much loyalty and commitment to his masters and sought to serve them to his best ability. Throughout his operational life, C-3PO worked diligently for several masters including Anakin Skywalker,
As a protocol droid, C-3PO could communicate in over seven million different forms of communication.
This allowed him to communicate with computer systems including those on the
Pit droid WAC-47 found C-3PO to be a "handsome fella."
C-3PO was a loyal servant and friend who worked with R2-D2, an astromech droid who became his closest friend.
R2-D2, C-3PO liked to stick to routine and did not respond well to change. When placed in danger, C-3PO had a tendency to panic as shown on several occasions, including infiltrating a droid foundry on
Despite his loyalty and commitment, C-3PO was generally unable to lie or to keep secrets due to his programming. In fact, after the
captured him, they remarked to Darth Vader that they were unable to get him to shut up.
Despite the droid's talkative nature, he was able to keep Anakin and Padmé's marriage secret. C-3PO's inability to lie came at a disadvantage when he and his companions were captured by Ewoks prior to the Battle of Endor.
Due to his general inability to keep secrets, Bail Organa arranged for him to receive a memory wipe in order to preserve the secret of Anakin and Padmé's offspring, Luke and Leia.
Threepio's programming, focused on etiquette and protocol,
impacted his personality and limited his behavior in several other ways. On Endor, he found it difficult to impersonate a deity due to his programming,
and during the attack on the Resistance fleet, he attempted to leave a mutiny in progress because it was not correct protocol.
Even though his master Anakin Skywalker had taken part in the sport, C-3PO believed that podracing did not sound like a fun time. He also thought of B1-series battle droids as "bad droids" who only followed hurtful orders, whereas droids like himself, BB-8, and, even if it took him some prompting to admit, R2-D2 tried to help people. Still, he took the moment to take a jab at R2-D2, claiming his counterpart helped people "from time to time." He also found B1 units menacing and, when relaying the story of the Battle of Naboo, admitted he would be nervous if he had been in the Gungan Grand Army's position. Nonetheless, he admitted to BB-8 he found stories like the Invasion of Naboo a tad upsetting because so many droids, even if they were "bad droids," had be to destroyed. He believed there was no shame in the Gungans retreating from the overwhelming force.
C-3PO continued serving Leia Organa in her careers as New Republic senator
C-3PO managed General Organa's Resistance droid spy network.
Despite not being able to run or fight, C-3PO bravely stayed behind to hold back the First Order Agent
so that Poe Dameron and the spy droid N1-ZX could flee deeper into the caves. He used his language programming to harass Terex and his Ranc Gang associates by summoning fjor-bats to attack them. C-3PO quipped that he was expendable and could be rebuilt.
You probably don't recognize me because of the red arm.
and had experienced at least two memory wipes throughout his operational life.
While C-3PO's chassis was originally covered in gray plating,
he was largely covered in golden plating by the time of the Clone Wars. As a protocol droid specializing in human and
communications, C-3PO could speak six million different forms of communication, including
, C-3PO's TranLang III communication module had been upgraded, allowing him to speak in seven million forms of communication.
was present in the area of his chest just below the neck.
based C-3PO and R2-D2 off Tahei and Matashichi, two characters in one of his major inspirations, the 1958 film
included two bickering "imperial bureaucrats" (not stated to be robots) as comic relief characters.
It just struck me because I looked at its face and the face looked back at me and we had this extraordinary eye contact.
He seemed to be saying: 'Come, come. Be with me,' and the vulnerability in his face made me want to help him.
―Anthony Daniels, on his first impression of C-3PO
Ralph McQuarrie's conceptual painting for C-3PO
, C-3PO's portrayer, met George Lucas in
. He was uninterested in portraying a robot until he saw
's conceptual painting for the character, which he found beautiful. When filming the movie, Daniels wrote out what he imagined R2-D2 was saying to help him get through a scene.
, C-3PO was guided through Jabba's Palace by a character referred to as "
built a puppet that was used to portray C-3PO's unfinished appearance, with Daniels providing the character's voice. C-3PO was animated by Lynch acting as a puppeteer dressed in a full-color suit, at times on-set with the other actors and at others filmed against a green screen. Daniels remained off-camera and delivered the lines, guiding Lynch's movements as he brought the puppet to life.
, the script called for Padmé Amidala to complete C-3PO's outer casing with pieces she found from the Lars garage, thereby addressing the plot point from
that Anakin Skywalker never finished it. To puppeteer C-3PO's "naked" form before getting his outer casing, Daniels wore a custom harness and could ensure the character walked more like he did when in full costume. The puppet-based C-3PO was filmed, but it was eventually decided that the outer casing plot point could be fulfilled offscreen, which allowed C-3PO to appear in full costume earlier. Reshoots for the rewritten scene occured at Ealing Studios and at ILM.
initially asked if he only wanted to supply the voice due to his age, but Daniels was happy to wear the costume again. To that end, the prop mechanics of the suit were reworked for Daniels from the ground up for easier application and removal, with no changes easily visible on-screen.
At least one appearance of the gold-plated protocol droid, however, did not feature Daniels in the suit; for C-3PO's brief cameo in the
, the droid was performed by creature artist
. His dialogue, however, was once again supplied by Daniels.
subsequently published reference books, including
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
started that C-3PO was 1.77 meters tall.
Explore all of Wookieepedia's media for this article subject:
Star Wars: The Prequel Trilogy – A Graphic Novel
Choose Your Destiny: An Obi-Wan & Anakin Adventure
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
Forces of Destiny: Daring Adventures: Volume 2
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
A New Hope: The Princess, the Scoundrel, and the Farm Boy
The Adventures of Luke Skywalker, Jedi Knight
Star Wars: The Original Trilogy – A Graphic Novel
Chewie vs. Holochess - Let the Wookiee Win
Smuggler's Run: A Han Solo & Chewbacca Adventure
The Weapon of a Jedi: A Luke Skywalker Adventure
Choose Your Destiny: A Luke & Leia Adventure
The Misadventures of Triple-Zero and Beetee
The Empire Strikes Back: So You Want to Be a Jedi?
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Tales of Villainy: Invasion of Echo Base
Han Solo vs. the Space Slug - The Escape Artist
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Moving Target: A Princess Leia Adventure
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Return of the Jedi: Beware the Power of the Dark Side!
Star Wars Galactic Stories: 7 Stories from a Galaxy Far, Far Away....
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Galactic Adventures Storybook Collection
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: A Junior Novel
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: A Junior Novel
Choose Your Destiny: A Finn & Poe Adventure
Flight of the Falcon, Part 2: The Planet of Misfit Droids
Star Wars: Tales from the Galaxy's Edge – Last Call
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel
William Shakespeare's The Phantom of Menace: Star Wars Part the First
Star Wars Epic Yarns: The Empire Strikes Back
Star Wars Epic Yarns: Return of the Jedi
LEGO Star Wars: Droid Tales Episodes I-III
LEGO Star Wars Should Have Used The Force
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
From Trenches to Wrenches: The Roger Story
BB-8 and the Jungle Adventure - Chapter 1
Explore all of Wookieepedia's media for this article subject:
"Destroy Malevolence" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Bombad Jedi" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Trespass" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Blue Shadow Virus" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Hostage Crisis" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Children of the Force" Episode Guide - The Clone Wars
"Senate Spy" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
Ultimate Sticker Collection: Star Wars Rebels
Highlights of the Saga: The Capture of Han Solo
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle of Yavin
Highlights of the Saga: Sabotage Mission
Highlights of the Saga: Peril in the Asteroid Field
Star Wars Costumes: The Original Trilogy
Highlights of the Saga: Escape to Tatooine
Highlights of the Saga: Attack on Jabba's Palace
Princess Leia Organa - Rebel Leader (ESB)
Databank A-Z: E-11 Blaster–Cornelius Evazan
Highlights of the Saga: The Capture of the
Highlights of the Saga: Assault on Endor
Weapons & Uniforms: Princess Leia Organa
Highlights of the Saga: Anakin's Tragedy
Weapons & Uniforms: Inhabitants of Tatooine
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Databank A-Z: Kyber Crystals–Laser Cannons
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: Incredible Cross-Sections
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: New Adventures
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
Databank A-Z: Davish Krail–Kuat Drive Yards
Highlights of the Saga: Alderaan Survives!
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia: Updated and Expanded
Highlights of the Saga: Infiltrating Starkiller Base
Highlights of the Saga: Escaping Cloud City
Weapons & Uniforms: Growing up on Tatooine
Weapons & Uniforms: D'Qar Resistance Base Personnel
Entertainment Weekly's Ultimate Guide to Rogue One
Building the Galaxy: Designing R2-D2, Part 1
Droid Directory: R2-series Astromech Droids, Part 1
Building the Galaxy: Designing R2-D2, Part 2
Droid Directory: 3PO-series Protocol Droids, Part 1
Understanding Robotics: Integrated Circuits
Building the Galaxy: Motion Control Filming
Droid Directory: R2-series Astromech Droids, Part 2
Understanding Robotics: Printed Circuit Boards
Building the Galaxy: Filming R2-D2, Part 1
Droid Directory: 3PO-series Protocol Droids, Part 2
Building the Galaxy: Filming R2-D2, Part 2
Building the Galaxy: Filming R2-D2, Part 3
Understanding Robotics: Artificial Assistants
Droid Directory: Imperial Mark IV Sentry Droid
Databank A-Z: Trident Assault Ship–Turbolasers
Highlights of the Saga: Oddy Muva's Revenge
Star Wars Super Graphic: A Visual Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
Star Wars Forces of Destiny: Meet the Heroes
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle for Jedha
Forces of Destiny: Tales of Hope & Courage
Star Wars: Geektionary: The Galaxy from A - Z
Star Wars: The Last Jedi Activity Book with Stickers
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Heroes of the Galaxy
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Incredible Cross-Sections
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Ultimate Sticker Collection
Behind the Cameras: How the Death Star Was Created
Behind the Cameras: Evolution of Stormtroopers
Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles
Creating a Starship Fleet: Ralph McQuarrie — The Man Who Drew
Starfighter Aces: Luke Skywalker — Savior of the Rebel Alliance
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
"The Core Problem" Episode Guide | Star Wars Resistance
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia, New Edition
Star Wars: How Not to Get Eaten by Ewoks and Other Galactic Survival Skills
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Galactic Guide
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
"Unfinished Business" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
The Battle of Hoth and the Second Death Star
The Final Order and the Battle of Exegol
Star Wars: The Clone Wars: Character Encyclopedia - Join the Battle!
"Decommissioned" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
Under the Helmet: The Legacy of Boba Fett
Star Wars Droids Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
: 5 Highlights from "Chapter 1: Stranger in a Strange Land"
SWCA 2022: 4 Things We Learned From the Attack of the Chords Panel
Star Wars: Attack of the Clones 20th Anniversary Celebration | Star Wars Celebration Anaheim 2022
SWCA 2022: 5 Highlights from ILMxLAB's Making of
Go Beyond The Spires in Virtual Reality: Making of ILMxLab's Tales From The Galaxy's Edge SWCA 2022
Anthony Daniels takes the stage at SWCA 2022 | Star Wars Celebration LIVE!
Explore Jedha of the High Republic Era and More from Marvel's October 2022
Tales and More Reveals from the Lucasfilm Publishing Panel
Star Wars: The Secrets of the Bounty Hunters
Celebration Europe 2023 Announces First Celebrity Guests
Marvel's Sana Starros First Look, Star Wars Celebration Celebrity Guests, and More!
Star Wars: Hyperspace Stories Annual—Jaxxon 2023
Learn the Untold Story of Jabba's Last Protocol Droid in Marvel's
Celebration Europe 2023 Exclusives from Hasbro, the LEGO Group, and More
Star Wars Celebration LIVE! 2023 – DAY 2
Phase III Teaser, New Jaxxon Art, and More
SWCE 2023: Funko Reveals New Micro-Sized
Anthony Daniels | Star Wars Celebration LIVE! 2023
Carrie Fisher's Hollywood Walk of Fame Ceremony
Star Wars Day is Here, Visions Volume 2, and More!
at 40 | From a Certain Point of View: What's the Best Moment in
Celebrating 40 Years of Return of the Jedi
D-Squad Is Back! R2-D2's All-Star Team Returns in New Marvel Miniseries
Crossover Event in Marvel's September 2023
Master & Apprentice: A Special Look at Ahsoka
NYCC 2023: 13 Highlights from the Lucasfilm Publishing Panel
"Imperial March" Begins with a Galaxy of New Toys, Apparel, and More
25th Anniversary Special #1 – First Look
at 25 | John Knoll Breaks Down 3 Iconic Visual Effects from
Star Wars: The Phantom Menace | Remastered Trailer
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
Publishing Program and Other Reveals from the Lucasfilm Panel
D23 2024: All the Star Wars News from D23: The Ultimate Disney Fan Event
25 Things You Probably Didn't Know About the Making of
Meet the Cast and Creators Mixing Things Up with
Set Sail for the Great Pit of Carkoon with the LEGO
Goodness Gracious Me, It's the C-3PO Premium Electronic Head - Reveal
The Star Wars Bestiary, Volume 1: Creatures of the Galaxy
Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy
Skeleton Crew | The Skeleton Crew Talks Star Wars | Streaming December 3 Disney+
Celebrate Life Day | Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge at Disneyland Resort
Dispatch: New Star Wars Celebration Japan Badge Art Revealed
Star Wars: Skeleton Crew | Mama Crab | Disney+
Star Wars: Skeleton Crew | Bringing Mama Crab to Life: Behind the Scenes | Disney+
Celebration Japan 2025 Art Show - Reveal
Celebration Japan Show Floor Exclusives - Reveal
Meet "Gil" – The Custom-Built RX Droid Delighting Fans at
Celebration Japan 2025: The Anime & Manga Pavilion Celebrates Collaboration
Celebration Japan 2025: All the News You Need
Never-Before-Seen Art Celebrates 20 Years of Lucasfilm Animation at San Diego Comic-Con 2025
Video Game Should You Play Right Now? - Updated
Make Like Sabine Wren and Adopt Your Own Loth-Cat - Gift the Galaxy Exclusive
How "Rey's Theme" Kept John Williams Coming Back to the
From Santa Yoda to Rocket Sleds: Lucasfilm's
LEGO Star Wars: Choose Your Side: Doodle Activity Book
LEGO Star Wars: Build Your Own Adventure
LEGO Star Wars Summer Vacation | Official Trailer | Disney+
LEGO Star Wars Summer Vacation: A Vacation Adventure Clip
LEGO Star Wars Character Encyclopedia Updated Edition
A Giant Chewbacca Joins the Fight in New
LEGO Star Wars: Rebuild the Galaxy - Pieces of the Past
Our Favorite Deep Cuts and Fun Facts from
LEGO Star Wars: Rebuild the Galaxy - Pieces of the Past
LEGO Star Wars: Rebuild the Galaxy - Pieces of the Past
That's No Moon, It's The LEGO Group's Latest Death Star Set
Lessons with Rey on Life Day! 🎄❄️🍖| LEGO Star Wars: Holiday Special | @StarWarsKids
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
"On loan to the Empire and serving as a translator, C-3PO is an unknowing accomplice in R2-D2's secret assignment."
The Weapon of a Jedi: A Luke Skywalker Adventure
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
Return of the Jedi: Beware the Power of the Dark Side!
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel
"Title and updated release date of my upcoming STAR WARS novel announced at SDCC. THE EDGE OF THE ABYSS takes place a year before Andor S1."
Tales of Villainy: Invasion of Echo Base
, which includes this episode, take place thirty
Star Wars Epic Adventures: The Phantom Menace
together, placing its events after those of
Star Wars Epic Adventures: The Phantom Menace
also sees C-3PO telling BB-8 about the events of
in order to explain how he met R2-D2. As
establishes that C-3PO had these memories wiped, with C-3PO losing these memories in
, C-3PO must have, in some way, recovered at least some of the memories he lost in 19 BBY.
Star Wars Epic Adventures: The Phantom Menace
Empire of Dreams: The Story of the Star Wars Trilogy
Anthony Daniels deep-dive 'Star Wars' interview: C-3PO's past, present and future
Return of the Jedi's Mysterious 'Lightman' Was Cut - for Being Too Silly
"My other friend from @ObiWanKenobi on @DisneyPlus, is recognizable by his shining gold plating! The real life, classic character finally getting the chance to do what he does best - translating from over 6 million forms of communication (with alien dignitary played by @ignisgram ) in the new #StarWars show #ObiWanKenobi"
Quiz: Which Droid Are You Taking on Your Next Adventure?
Every C-3PO Costume Explained By Anthony Daniels
"On loan to the Empire and serving as a translator, C-3PO is an unknowing accomplice in R2-D2's secret assignment."