This article covers an essential topic and is in need of major additions and/or work.
and complete this article to the highest level of quality before removing this notice.
This article has multiple issues and is in need of major additions and/or work.
This article would benefit from the addition of one or more new images. ({{
Parts of this article have been identified as no longer being up to date. ({{
}}) The article needs to be updated with
Flight of the Falcon, Part 2: The Planet of Misfit Droids
Star Wars: The Last Jedi – The Storms of Crait 1
Star Wars Book XIII: The Scourging of Shu-Torun
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Star Wars Vol. 3: War of the Bounty Hunters
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle 2
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: A Junior Novel
Choose Your Destiny: A Maz's Castle Mission
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Expanded Edition
Black Spire: Return to a Shattered Planet
Star Wars: Episode IX The Rise of Skywalker
Solo: A Star Wars Story The Official Guide
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Clone Wars: Character Encyclopedia - Join the Battle!
Star Wars: The Secrets of the Bounty Hunters
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
Please help Wookieepedia by editing this article. Once you have fixed an issue, you may remove it from the list of issues. See this article's
I saved him, at least that's what he says, the big fuzzy fool, but really, he saved me. I was on a bad path, and Chewie, he put me straight. Saved my shanks more than once too.
, known affectionately to his friends as
, and resistance fighter who fought in the
and became a Wookiee military leader. During the Clone Wars, he was captured by
, to escape. He later commanded Wookiee forces of the
. During the battle, one of the last ones of the war, Yoda's
and, with the help of Chewbacca and his fellow Wookiee
, Chewbacca was enslaved by the Empire until he was rescued by
until Solo was forced to dump a shipment of
to avoid trouble with the Empire, at which point a
was placed on their heads. Soon thereafter, Chewbacca and Solo were hired by Jedi Master
on a mission vital to the survival of the
. Though Chewbacca and Solo initially chose to leave Yavin 4 and not join the Rebellion, they ended up fighting in the
and were instrumental in Skywalker's destruction of the Death Star, a major victory for the Rebellion.
Throughout the war, Chewbacca and Solo fought the Empire in a number of engagements, including an
. Along with Princess Organa and C-3PO, they escaped from
after the Empire tracked the Rebel Alliance there. The group sought refuge with Calrissian on
, but Calrissian betrayed them and turned them over to
's chief enforcer, after his city was threatened. Solo was
and Calrissian helped the others escape, but they were too late to save the frozen Solo from being taken by
to Jabba the Hutt. Chewbacca and Calrissian set off to find Solo and located him in
Solo and destroyed Jabba. Shortly thereafter, they fought in the
DS-2 Death Star II Mobile Battle Station
. Sidious was killed for the first time aboard the
, delivering a crippling blow to the Empire.
Kashyyyk from the Empire. When the war finally came to a close, Chewbacca returned home to Kashyyyk with his
Skywalker's new generation of Jedi, Chewbacca reunited with his old friend and the two spent many years as smugglers once more. They lost the
and ended up smuggling aboard a ship called the
. The droid had part of a map that led to the exiled Luke Skywalker, so the group brought the map to the Resistance that opposed the First Order, which had risen from the ashes of the Galactic Empire. Chewbacca soon fought in the
, a devastating First Order superweapon, a conflict in which Solo lost his life at the hands of his son. After the base was destroyed, Chewbacca joined Rey in traveling to the planet
, where they found Luke Skywalker. After Solo's death, Chewbacca often served as the sole pilot of the
, including piloting the ship to aid the
the battle of Crait, Chewbacca was one of the last of the Resistance. Having learned of the mysterious return of Darth Sidious, Chewbacca and the crew of the
, now including Poe Dameron, traveled to the planets
, being reunited with his friend Calrissian in the process. The quest nearly ended in Chewbacca's apparent death, as Rey, having been revealed to be the Emperor's granddaughter through his son, lashed out with dark power during a fight with Kylo Ren and destroyed a First Order transport that she had thought Chewbacca had been loaded onto, seemingly killing him.
However, Chewbacca survived and was rescued by the Resistance as they continued the quest. Rey eventually found Exegol during a failed self-exile attempt to protect the galaxy from her becoming a Sith, and led the charge during
. Rey finally killed her malevolent grandfather with the help of the returned
in the climax of the battle, while the Resistance, joined by the
Having ultimately destroyed the Sith once and for all, the Resistance reveled in their victory, but also mourned their losses, including Leia, who had died of natural causes shortly after reaching out to her son and helping him turn back towards the light.
Tarkin's protégé and Operation Starlight
Hey, you're the married one. Find me a human girl with Malla's brains and silky hair and maybe I'll consider it.
Chewbacca with his wife Mallatobuck and son Lumpawaroo
During his life, he explored Kashyyyk, including the wildest reaches of its forests, from one pole to the other. His exploration hardened his footpads.
Fighting with courage to defend both Kashyyyk and the Republic,
while other Wookiee soldiers led the charge in battle.
to be their prey, his transport was attacked by a trio of
Chewbacca escaped from the wreckage and followed the trio, with whom he communicated with thanks to Tano's understanding of
, to their hideout. Using his technical expertise and parts from the crashed transport, he constructed a
to contact his people on his nearby homeworld; however, it seemingly failed and an impatient Jinx, supported by O-Mer, decided to lure down and hijack a hunting pod and take the base ship. As persuaded by Tano, Chewbacca joined in their endeavor and raided the Trandoshan base, only to be joined by a Wookiee relief force led by
—who had received Chewbacca's transmission—as well as
. Once all the Trandoshans had been killed, Chewbacca and the Wookiees accompanied the young Jedi to the
Good-bye, Tarfful. Good-bye, Chewbacca. Miss you I will.
―Yoda, shortly before his departure from Kashyyyk
Clone Commander Gree, Yoda, and Chewbacca on Kashyyyk
, overseeing the confrontation between the
, Chewbacca saw his people sent to work as
or made to serve as science experiments.
, former Padawan Ahsoka Tano, the very same Force-sensitive Chewbacca had met on Wasskah, pondered what had happened to him after reading updates on the state of Kashyyyk, starting to lose her hope that he remained free.
Chewbacca is enslaved along with several other Wookiees.
At some point, while on the run from Imperial forces,
Chewbacca and several other Wookiees were captured and enslaved by several Trandoshan slavers.
Like them, he was forced into slavery, working to cut the
Chewbacca temporarily escaped but was turned over to the Empire by a
, he had the opportunity to escape captivity, but sacrificed his own freedom to save a
. He bounced around at other Imperial facilities before eventually being sent to
Whilst on Mimban, he came to be referred to as "the Beast."
Chewbacca also learned that the Imperials were trying to sell him off as a pit fighter.
Chewbacca was kept in filthy conditions on Mimban
All right. Well, you're gonna need a nickname, 'cause I ain't saying that every time.
, a criminal impersonating an Imperial officer, his commanding officer decided to execute him by giving him to "the beast." While imprisoned in an underground holding cell, Han used his knowledge of Shyriiwook to convince Chewbacca to stage a fight with him after realizing that one of the supports in the cell was weak, and that destroying it would allow them to escape
. Following their escape, the pair managed to join a reluctant
Chewbacca, grateful for Solo's intervention, proclaimed a
to the outlaw. Chewbacca thereby became Solo's lifelong friend.
Oh, come on, Val. He looks so sincere. Plus, have you ever tried to disinvite a Wookiee to anything? Not a good idea.
―Rio Durant, in response to Val's distrust of Han Solo and Chewbacca
Chewbacca and Han began their outlaw lives working as part of pirate Tobias Beckett's
. However, they failed due to the intervention of
, and Solo's decision to drop the cargo. Solo and Chewbacca promised
of Crimson Dawn an equivalent shipment that they would obtain unrefined by making the notorious
, who had become his top lieutenant, with them.
Knowing they would need a fast ship to transport the coaxium before it degraded and exploded, Qi'ra introduced the pair to
. Solo lost the game, regardless, Calrissian agreed to personally pilot the Falcon for the job in return for a cut of the profits.
Chewbacca, Solo, Qi'ra, Calrissian, and Beckett
the unrefined coaxium from Kessel during a slave riot instigated by Calrissian's navigational droid,
, with Chewbacca as his copilot, for the first of many times. Because the crew stole the coaxium
as unrefined, it was necessary to make the escape from Kessel to the refinery on
in record time, prompting Solo to plot a shorter, and much more dangerous course through the maelstrom that surrounded Kessel and near a gravity well called
, reducing the typical distance required from 20 to 12 parsecs.
Upon reaching Savareen and refining the coaxium, the crew
by Enfys Nest, who explained to them that the Cloud-Riders were freedom fighters stirred to action by the atrocities committed by Crimson Dawn and other crime syndicates, not pirates. Solo devised a plan to give the coaxium to the Cloud-Riders and give Vos fake coaxium, but Vos was prepared for their betrayal because of information given to him by his double-agent in the crew, Beckett.
However, Solo had double-crossed Beckett and Vos: the containers he left with the Cloud-Raiders were empty, and Nest dispatched the agents Vos sent to retrieve it. The coaxium Solo, Qi'ra, and Chewbacca brought to Vos was, in fact, genuine. Beckett managed to escape with the coaxium and Chewbacca as a hostage. After Qi'ra betrayed and killed Vos, Solo found and killed Beckett, but could only watch as he and Chewbacca were left behind, while Qi'ra left Savareen in Vos'
. Solo and Chewbacca entrusted the coaxium to Nest, who intended to use it to form a rebellion against the Empire.
Solo and Chewbacca tracked down Calrissian to
Solo swiped the spare cards Lando held up his sleeve, and challenged him to a rematch of sabacc for the
instantly became Solo's most prized possession. With their new-found ship and confidence, Solo and Chewbacca began engaging in much more dangerous and risky criminal operations, eventually becoming smugglers.
Around the same time, Chewbacca likewise hung a pair of
dice above the freighter's piloting console.
as their ship, the two smugglers took on many jobs over the ensuring years.
, though their relationship with the siblings soured over the course of their work together,
about what happened to Kashyyyk after the Clone Wars.
―Han to Chewbacca, after the latter dumps Frax out of the
At one point, Han Solo and Chewbacca were transporting two tons of
. They were being pursued by the Empire, and Frax, who was worried about being put in an Imperial prison, pulled a blaster on Han. Chewbacca did a barrel roll with the
, knocking Frax out of the ship entirely. They successfully escaped the Empire and Odona, but left Frax behind.
Solo and Chewbacca were later smuggling some Imperial cargo for
. They started being chased by several TIE fighters, and they were faced with a choice: surrender, or drop the Imperial cargo. Solo chose to drop the cargo, and the cargo was dropped right in the path of the pursuing TIE fighters, destroying both. Without being pursued, Solo and Chewbacca flew down to the nearby
Once landing, they began making repairs, until they found out that the planet was inhabited by the
for stolen ships, and Nodo also had dozens of prisoners, including
. Solo pretended to be Jabba, and convinced Nodo to have his crew fix the
. After it was fixed, however, another crime boss,
, landed at Nodo's chop shop. Lallani had heard Jabba was there, and wanted to capture him.
A battle broke loose, and in the chaos, Solo and Chewbacca freed Odon and the other prisoners. They went back to the
, and on the way they found several barrels of
, enough to replace the cargo they'd lost. However, Chewbacca convinced Solo that Odon and the prisoners needed the fuel more, and Solo relented. They gave up the fuel they desperately needed, so that Odon could use the fuel to pay for her and the other prisoners' way home.
as they were unloading the rhydonium from the
attacked them. They revealed that Han and Chewbacca had a bounty on their head, put there by Nodo himself. Zuckuss managed to put Han into the
hold, but Chewbacca attacked Zuckuss in order to rescue Solo and
, Zuckuss's other prisoner, from the bounty hunters. He placed Beris into a barrel, despite his protests before he and Solo took a speeder back to the
. However, Zuckuss and 4-LOM caught up with, but Chewbacca and Solo were able to use several barrels to knock them down. As they flew
, Chewbacca and Solo ejected Beris' barrel into space with a homing beacon to notify his family. However, they were pursued by Zuckuss, 4-LOM, and their ship, the
. Eventually they crash-landed in a ocean on a planet in
crashed, Chewbacca and Han then Zuckuss behind. They found an
Solo and Chewbacca climbed the projector, but were confronted by Zuckuss who tossed spears at them. When Chewbacca go to the top, he was able to turn off the beam by destroying it's power source. However, small droids were activated and wanted to destroy them and all organic life in the galaxy.
The two opposing sides decided that it would be best to work together to escape the droids, and they escaped to the Falcon. Han pretended that the Falcon lost power again, and tricked Zuckuss and 4-LOM into fleeing the
, jumping into the water below. Solo and Chewbacca left the planet, leaving the two bounty hunters behind.
At one point, while on Coruscant after a smuggling job, Chewbacca and Solo were approached by
. Aloo, wanted to hire them for a job, and requested that they go to her
later, they went to see her, and she told them that she had a
-sitting job for Chewbacca, and Solo was to remain with her. They reluctantly accepted, and Chewbacca went on a cargo ship with the
. During the unwilling flight, Chewbacca and Trillick were told by Aloo that the real job was to steal an unknown artifact from a temple on the planet
. Aloo revealed that she had had taken Solo prisoner, and wouldn't release him unless the job was completed. With no choice but to continue, Chewbacca continued the job, along with Trillick. Before the ship reached Ushruu, the two bonded, as Trillick told Chewbacca about how her planet had been ravaged by the Empire, and she was also being blackmailed by Aloo, who had one of her peoples' sacred texts. The two dealt with the tookas and the cargo ship's cargo droid, K-2SB, who was actually
. Eventually, the ship pulled out of hyperspace.
When they found a place to land, they found dead Trandoshans, sent to find the artifact by
. Trillick and Chewbacca proceeded to travel towards the location of the temple, bringing K-2SO along. Trillick had filled an
, and forced K-2 to carry it. The group faced several
, which they accidentally trapped within their cargo ship. They started traveling above the ground in the
, the ancient entity that dwelt on Ushruu. It dragged Trillick to the Vathyr itself, but Chewbacca managed to free her. Eventually, they reached the temple, and searched it. They found the artifact, which was an ancient
teachings, in the temple's library. When Trillick took it from its shelf, the author of the book, the
, spoke to them. The Enchantress's voice asked who the book was for, and seemed satisfied when she was told it was for
K-2SO stored the book in his chest compartment as they traveled back to the cargo ship. But when they reached the ship, Andor had arrived. Cassian and K-2 flew away with the book, which Chewbacca and Trillick needed to rescue Solo and the ancient text. Chewbacca came up with a plan, and he and Trillick flew back to Coruscant. They arrived at Alinka's tower, and set free the Corellian
that were trapped in the ship's cargo hold free. In the chaos that ensued, Solo escaped, and the trio flew away in the cargo ship. They went back to the
to escape Coruscant. Solo reluctantly agreed to take Trillick back to her home planet of
It's okay to care about them. They need our help.
Chewbacca and Kenobi discuss a potential business arrangement
During one of their smuggling attempts at the time of the Galactic Civil War, the
was boarded and the two lost the cargo that they were hauling for their usual employer, Jabba the Hutt. Arriving at
to speak with Jabba about the lost cargo, they sat down in
. At the bar, Chewbacca was approached by
, who was searching for passage for himself,
in advance and an additional 15,000 upon arrival to Alderaan, Solo and Chewbacca agreed to the commission.
, Solo and Chewbacca found Jabba waiting for them with a crew of hired help.
on Chewbacca, noting the Wookiee getting ready for a fight as Solo spoke with Jabba. Thus, he moved his arm enough to ensure the Wookiee braids he wore were visible to Chewbacca, which the Wookiee decided to show no reaction to.
Ultimately, Solo managed to convince Jabba to give him more time. After a brief firefight with stormtroopers, the
left Tatooine with its new passengers, escaping from Imperial vessels before entering hyperspace.
During the hyperspace journey, while Kenobi
with R2-D2, who made a move that Chewbacca disliked. C-3PO advised that the move was technically fair, and even chided Chewbacca, at which point Solo advised them not to anger the Wookiee because of his species' tendency to pull arms out of their sockets, prompting the two droids to surrender.
Chewbacca, pretending to be an Imperial prisoner.
s exit from hyperspace, the group found themselves in a
of the battle station which was still looming in the system, but managed to evade capture by hiding in the
s smuggling compartments. While Kenobi set out to disable the station's tractor beam in order to allow them to escape, Skywalker was told by R2-D2 that
her, with Chewbacca posing as a prisoner of
-disguised Skywalker and Solo. Despite encountering trouble, Chewbacca and the others managed to escape from the Death Star—except for Kenobi, who had died in a duel with
, just as the Death Star closed in on the
What're you looking at? I know what I'm doing.
Skywalker was hopeful that Chewbacca and Solo would join the Rebellion, but Solo was more concerned with receiving his payment in order to pay his debt to Jabba. Though Chewbacca growled in dissatisfaction at this course of action, the two departed, seemingly leaving the Rebel Alliance on its own to deal with the Death Star.
At Chewbacca's urging, with Solo also feeling that he needed to help Skywalker,
they would return just in time to protect Skywalker during the
, allowing the young pilot to destroy the massive
Chewbacca lets out a triumphant howl after Skywalker and Solo are awarded medals.
Back on Yavin 4, Luke Skywalker and Han Solo were both awarded
by Organa, while Chewbacca howled in delight during the
The time for celebration was soon over, for Organa asked the Rebels to take a moment of silence to honor and remember all those who had died when Alderaan was destroyed, whereas General
Yavin since the Empire was aware of their location.
Chewbacca would be also awarded a medal,
and shared a moment of banter between Organa and Solo, just before they parted ways.
―Caluan Ematt, on Chewbacca and Han Solo's tactics
However, before they could depart for Tatooine to pay Jabba, Organa would ask Solo to run an errand for the Rebellion, which Chewbacca convinced him to accept—to rescue
, the two made their way to the planet, only to find themselves confronted by the
. There, they were immediately attacked by
, which prompted Solo to accuse them of being "Rebels" and set them against
, to whom they asked about Ematt's location. After she told them their destination and the password, Chewbacca and Solo rented a
, where they met Ematt, but were attacked by the bounty hunters again, as Leighton had revealed their location to save
's life. However, they escaped and made their way to the
, only to be ambushed by Beck and more than forty stormtroopers.
Chewbacca, Solo and Ematt confronted by Alecia Beck.
Forced to surrender, Chewbacca, Solo and Ematt were taken into custody, with Beck focusing on Ematt and leaving Chewbacca and Solo to the stormtroopers. Unbeknownst to the Imperials, Solo noticed the
making their way to save them, but with the
activated, it would be pointless. Once aware of Solo's intentions, Chewbacca pretended to be angry at Solo and shoved him, sending him flying into a trooper to grab his
and destroy the field generators, flooding the
with Cyrkon's toxic gases. Soon enough, the
opened fire at the Imperials, and Chewbacca made his way to the
while Solo helped Ematt and recovered their weapons.
and eight TIE fighters. They engaged the
s took a hit that damaged its navicomputer; Chewbacca saw Solo's nobler side when he decided to cover the
to make a run for Cyrkon's atmosphere just as the
s tractor beam advanced towards them. They resisted the beam by entering the planet's
themselves, while Leighton fled, and approached Motok in a dead-engine glide, daring Beck into catching the
at the price of destroying the city with the tractor beam and turning Cyrkon against the Empire. As she desisted, the
began its fall to the ground and the two pilots manually restarted the engines, just in time to avoid crashing into the city and escape.
Sometime later, he was on an important solo mission to deliver a box, when the
of his ship malfunctioned. Forced to crash-land on
, Chewbacca went to a city to obtain a replacement and engaged a
vendor. Their deal was interrupted by a fugitive young girl,
. The Besalisk, however, refused and tried to betray her to the planet's crime lord,
. Chewbacca stopped him, though, by having the Besalisk sell him the stabilizer. However, he did not have enough credits to buy it. Subsequently, he went to a cantina and played sabacc, successfully doubling his credits. Chewbacca then noticed the girl from before, and helped her hide from Jaum's men.
Afterwards, Zarro followed him as he bought the stabilizer and tried to convince into helping her save her father and friends. Unable to delay his mission, Chewbacca repaired his ship, and changed his mind to leave the planet when Zarro mentioned her people had been enslaved by Jaum. Unknown to Chewbacca and Zarro, Jaum was planning to export the
larvae to the Empire to be processed into
, a substance used in the manufacture of
To maximize profits, Jaum also planned to sell his slave workforce to the Empire.
The following day, Zarro devised a plan to infiltrate Jaum's
. She got Chewbacca to search for an open air vent for the slave
to escape. Meanwhile, Zarro infiltrated the mine by allowing herself to be recaptured. Her plan was to locate a hollowed part of the mine. Keeping in touch by transmitter, Zarro told Chewbacca to find an open air vent. While struggling through the tunnel, the Wookiee was haunted by memories of his enslavement at the hands of the Trandoshans. Zarro's escape plan encountered a problem when she was caught by Jaum and his men. After the miners including Zarro's father
objected to Jaum's plan, the gangster ordered his men to execute the miners.
Before Jaum's guards could carry out their execution, Chewbacca snuck up behind them and overpowered them with his
. After meeting Zarro's father, Chewbacca joined forces with the miners to fight their way out of the mine. He refashioned a rod from a broken-down
. Shortly later, the Wookiee knocked out one of Jaum's henchmen with the derelict GNK power droid. Chewbacca eventually found his way to the mine's loading bay, which was full of crates of Andelm beetle larvae. However, Jaum's
fired on the incendiary larvae with his blaster, igniting an explosion that created a cave-in.
Despite Tyvak's efforts, Chewbacca and his friends managed to survive the explosion. Part of the Wookiee's left leg was scorched by fire but Zarro managed to douse it. Chewbacca and his friends then narrowly escaped a swarm of Andelm beetles. Chewbacca managed to used his bowcaster to collapse a girder, temporarily delaying the swarm but denying the miners their only way out in the process. While heading to regroup with the other miners in a different section of the mine, Chewbacca encountered the guard he had knocked out with the GNK power droid. Upon recognizing the guard, he dropped the heavy droid chassis on the man, leaving him behind.
While the miners discussed a way of digging themselves out of the mine, Chewbacca came up with the idea of climbing out vertically through a sinkhole. While skeptical of the Wookiee's chance of success, the miners and Zarro agreed to support his plan. With much effort, Chewbacca managed to climb through the roots of a dead tree and topple it, creating a pit large enough for all the miners to climb up. Chewbacca then lowered a rope for all the miners to evacuate. Once everyone had reached the surface, Chewbacca and Zarro departed under the pretext of repairing his A-wing starfighter.
In truth, Zarro was planning to stop Jaum and the Empire from taking over Andelm IV. Enlisting Chewbacca's support, they traveled to the planet's
. There, they found a bunker that was inhabited by her blind friend
, who served as the "eyes" of the former. After examining Sevox's junkshop, Chewbacca came up with a plan to sabotage Jaum's plot to export Dedlanite to the Empire.
with explosives. Sevox thought Chewbacca and Zarro's plan had little chance of success but nonetheless agreed to drop them off at the spaceport. He also offered his bunker as a hiding place for Zarro and her friend.
After shooing away a group of child beggars, Chewbacca and Jaum infiltrated the spaceport disguised as Jaum's new
. They soon discovered that the spaceport was being occupied by several stormtroopers,
. Shortly later, they found Jaum supervising several stormtroopers who were loading crates of dedlanite into an
. When Jaum demanded that Zarro take off her helmet, Chewbacca opened fire on the gangster and his stormtroopers. After running out of ammunition, he took out the stormtroopers in hand to hand combat.
While Chewbacca exchanged fire with Jaum, Zarro managed to bring the rigged R5 droid "
" aboard the shuttle. Chewbacca then fought with Tyvak but was trapped by the AT-ST walker. The Wookiee however activated a nearby engine which burned Tyvak alive and knocked out the Imperial walker's right cannon, causing it to topple to the ground. Meanwhile, Jaum managed to escape aboard the landing craft with the dedlanite and "Boomer." The two were overjoyed their plot had succeeded. However, their elation was short-lived and they were soon arrested by scout troopers reporting to the Imperial Commander
, the same officer who was interested in Jaum's dedlanite deal.
Per Commander Kai's orders, Chewbacca and Zarro were transported up to Kai's
in orbit above Andelm IV. On the way up, Chewbacca and Zarro managed to overpower their stormtrooper captors aboard the
. After landing, Chewbacca knocked out an Imperial
that Kai had sent to negotiate their surrender. After knocking out the remaining stormtroopers clinging to his body, Kai agreed to listen to Zarro.
Zarro made up a story that Jaum was a fraudster who had come to scam Kai. She also claimed that he was a rebel
and that he did not have a mining operation. To back up her story, Zarro told him that Jaum's "droid" "Boomer" was rigged with explosives. Shortly later, Jaum arrived carrying samples of dedlanite. Shortly later, Boomer exploded, destroying the landing craft and damaging the Star Destroyer's force-field. In the meantime, Chewbacca and Zarro managed to escape on a
. Despite Zarro accidentally activating a
which destroyed the ship's left-wing, they managed to crash-land the bomber on Andelm IV.
While Chewbacca turned down Zarro's request to stay behind with her people, he still gave her a hug and awarded her a gold medallion he had received for his services during the
. After departing as friends, Chewbacca traveled on his A-wing to his homeworld of Kashyyyk. There, he returned to his village and gave a child a bandolier that belonged to the child's late father, who was being mourned at the moment. Shortly later, Chewbacca departed aboard the
. Meanwhile, Jaum was imprisoned by Commander Kai, who was disgusted by Jaum's greed and his alleged scam. He had the gangster tortured by his
Chewie, stand down! Do not fire! You take a shot at Darth Vader and the whole factory will be on alert!
Are you crazy? Chewbacca if you have a shot at Vader I order you to take it! Forget about us! Killing him is more important! Do you hear me Chewie? Take the shot! Now!
Chewbacca watches the team from the vantage point.
, alongside the usual team—Solo, Organa, Skywalker, C-3PO and R2-D2—, with Solo posing as the envoy of Jabba the Hutt to enter the factory, Skywalker and Organa disguised as his bodyguards, along with R2-D2. Separately, Chewbacca and C-3PO landed the
surrounding the factory, with the latter going to a vantage point to observe through the scope of his
Unexpectedly, though, Darth Vader arrived on a
-class T-4a shuttle, and Chewbacca contacted Solo, telling him to stand down, for firing on the Sith Lord would put the entire moon on alert, but Organa gave the order to take the shot. Chewbacca consented and fired, but Vader sensed danger and deflected the first shot with his lightsaber. He continued shooting, but the
had lifted two stormtroopers into the air using the Force and used them as human shields, only for him to topple the building Chewbacca was perched upon. Though it collapsed, the Wookiee escaped from the wreckage. Now being hunted down, Chewbacca lost contact with the team as he made his way to the
Chewbacca unleashes his rage against the intruding aliens.
When he arrived, he discovered C-3PO in pieces strapped and the freighter being dismantled by
. Angered, Chewbacca chased the scavenger away, recovered the protocol droid and made contact with Solo, who along Organa had hijacked an
and were escaping from Vader. Despite the lengthy time he needed to fix the ship, Chewbacca repaired enough of the
s damage to pilot it to the team's position, where he extracted them and many of the slaves Skywalker had freed. As they began their retreat from Cymoon 1, Organa took over the controls instead of a delirious Solo, so that Chewbacca could repair the hyperdrive, which he managed to do, so that Organa could make the jump into
and escape a blockade of Star Destroyers.
The mighty Chewbacca. I must say…I expected better. You hear so much about the big, scary
. But you're really not so tough after all, are y—
, where Solo was treated for his injuries and Chewbacca and Solo went on to better repair the
, when the Corellian noted that it had been a miracle that the ship had flown with Chewbacca's rushed repairs, prompting an annoyed reply from the Wookiee, while they strived to repair the
The need for new parts prompted Solo to go on a mission with Organa, leaving Chewbacca behind with the freighter.
However, when he heard that Skywalker had been captured by
to the moon, wherein the droid did the talking, and the Wookiee used more violent means to interrogate the criminals in search of Skywalker. It was a
who told them of Skywalker's location on
and his direction, and Chewbacca and C-3PO set out to Skywalker's encounter.
Just as Chewbacca and C-3PO were planning to break into Grakkus's palace, they were attacked by
. Chewbacca fought Dengar until Solo and Organa arrived, and Solo shot Dengar in the back.
With Dengar distracted by Solo, Chewbacca used the opportunity to throw Dengar off the building. Chewbacca, Solo, and Organa then went to save Luke from Grakkus, only to find several stormtroopers in the way. R2-D2 acquired a few lightsabers from Grakkus, and they used them to fight the enemies. After that, they fled Nar Shaddaa.
The smuggler Han Solo has an associate. Or a pet, I'm not sure. It's a…
Yes! His name is Chew…Chew something. Chew…bacca?
Later, when Luke Skywalker and Darth Vader
, Organa approached Solo and Chewbacca for help in defeating Vader and saving Luke.
, a homicidal protocol droid. But Triple-0 managed to inject a lethal dose of
into Chewbacca, leveling the playing field. But before Triple-0 could kill Chewbacca, Luke came to the rescue, further damaging Triple-Zero. Chewbacca, Luke, Han Solo, and R2-D2 then all fled from
As they all went to save Leia from Vader, they were attacked by
, who was working alongside Aphra. Even though he was feeling the effects of Triple-Zero's poison, Chewbacca started fighting Krrsantan.
Chewbacca was initially losing the fight, but when R2-D2 injected him with the antidote to the poison, Chewbacca started winning the fight.
However, Krrsantan was defeated when he attacked C-3PO, who electrocuted Krrsantan. When they returned to the Falcon, they were able to capture Aphra.
Later, Chewbacca assisted the rebellion in
Chewbacca jettisoned the ship's reactor just before it exploded, creating the illusion that the ship was destroyed. He, along with many other Rebels, worked on keeping the ship afloat while flying it towards
infiltrated the Harbinger to stop them from breaking the Empire's
, Chewbacca fought one of the elite stormtroopers,
Since the fight took place in the engine room, Chewbacca was able to throw Zuke into the engine's machinery, which brought the engine back to full power. When the Rebels broke the Imperial siege above Tureen VII, they all fled except for C-3PO, who was captured by SCAR Squadron.
At some point, Organa was nearly captured by the Empire while transporting important information on
with the help of an inhabitant of the planet named
. Solo, Skywalker, and Chewbacca helped the two escape in the
I know, Chewie, and I'm sorry. But if Sana is right and Luke's on Ktath'atn, we can't risk bringing a
, and Solo, Organa, and Starros were preparing to go rescue him, Chewbacca attempted to go with them, but wasn't allowed, because the people of Ktath'atn were extremely hostile towards Wookiees.
. During the trip, Solo and Chewbacca were attacked by several TIE fighters. Chewbacca manned the
s turret while Solo flew, but they had to give up and land on a nearby asteroid, since the
s hyperdrive was damaged. Grakkus killed the stormtroopers that boarded the ship, and then attacked Solo, but in doing so, let information regarding the planet
slip out. Solo electrocuted Grakkus, and they continued on to Akiva.
on Odona looking for a new spot for a Rebel base. They were attacked by Frax, and Organa was grazed by a blaster bolt. Chewbacca helped her into the Falcon, and they fled.
―Han Solo, in response to Chewbacca laughing at him
Now full-fledged members of the Rebel Alliance, and following a dangerous run-in with bounty hunter on
, for they had been assigned to the newly-established
, where Chewbacca would be effecting repairs on the
to pay their debt to Jabba once and for all.
While at Echo Base, Chewbacca was assigned to digging corridors by Organa. On one of these assignments, Chewbacca dug into a cave occupied by a
. The beast captured him and held him hostage. After not checking in, Leia and Artoo started looking for him. They found a scared Chewbacca clutched in the hands of the sleeping wampa. Organa's attempted rescue of Chewbacca ended with the wampa waking up. The Wookiee ran to repair the door, which led to the uncovered cave with Artoo, while Leia acted as a distraction. At the last minute, Chewbacca finished his job on the door, and with Organa back inside, he closed it and trapped the woken beast in the cave.
were when Solo had to venture outside during Hoth's night to rescue Skywalker. Soon afterwards, Chewbacca and Solo destroyed an
, but could not prevent it from transmitting information back to the Empire, revealing the location of the hidden Rebel base. The Empire consequently launched an all-out
on the planet, forcing Chewbacca, Solo, Organa and C-3PO to flee on the
s damaged hyperdrive, they were unable to leave the system and escape the Imperial blockade, which prompted Solo to pilot the ship into a nearby asteroid field, hoping that the Imperials would be unwilling to follow them there. Evading several pursuing TIE fighters, they landed the ship inside a cave of a large asteroid, where they hoped to hide from Imperial forces and complete repairs. While waiting inside the cavern, Chewbacca continued to repair the freighter until
attacked it; soon, they realized the cave was in fact the inside of a
was subsequently attacked by the Imperial Star Destroyer
, but with a maneuver devised by Solo, they were able to avoid the vessel and fled to
, where they would request help from Calrissian, an old acquaintance of Han's. Unbeknownst to them, they were followed by the bounty hunter Boba Fett.
Chewie, this won't help me! Hey! Save your strength, there'll be another time! The princess—you have to take care of her! Do ya hear me, huh?
Chewbacca worked to reassemble C-3PO while imprisoned.
Upon arrival to Cloud City, the group was welcomed by Calrissian, and spent a few days until the
was repaired. However, they grew increasingly suspicious, especially after C-3PO disappeared. Chewbacca took on the task of finding the missing protocol droid, eventually rescuing him from a junk pile. After a scuffle with some
workers, he brought the droid back to Organa and Solo, when Calrissian invited them to enjoy some refreshments. In truth, it was a meeting with Darth Vader, who had arrived to Cloud City before the Rebel team did and forced Calrissian into a deal to have them imprisoned.
Separated from the others, Chewbacca began to partially reassemble C-3PO, when Solo was escorted back by stormtroopers, having been
by Vader, with Organa. They were eventually brought to Calrissian's
to test it before Skywalker arrived, for Vader desired to encase Skywalker in carbonite and present him to the Emperor. Though Chewbacca tried to fight, wanting to protect his old friend, Solo calmed him down, asking him to save his strength for another day. The Wookiee then relented and allowed himself to be placed in
Chewbacca chokes Lando Calrissian for betraying the group.
As Chewbacca and Organa being escorted to Vader's ship, Calrissian, who was growing increasingly dissatisfied with Vader's deal, betrayed the Sith Lord and
the two. Chewbacca, though, was not quick to trust him and reacted violently, choking him. The princess was able to calm him enough for Calrissian to inform them that Boba Fett was about to leave Cloud City carrying the carbonite-frozen Solo. Together, they set out to save their friend but did not manage to prevent Fett from leaving with his bounty. The team then boarded the
to escape the city, briefly returning to save Skywalker, who had fought and lost a
Anyway, yeah, eight missiles, that'll pack a punch. But even if they all land, they won't take out a Star Destroyer.
Master Chewbacca suggests that we do not actually need to destroy an entire vessel, merely the gun emplacements on one of the light cruisers. If this succeeds, the integrity of the cordon will be reduced, and—
I understand Shyriiwook, Goldie. I get the idea. Doesn't mean it ain't crazy.
After escaping the Empire, Chewbacca argued with Calrissian about pursuing Solo. The former Baron Administrator refuted Chewbacca’s plan, citing Fett’s involvement, causing the Wookiee to become angry. Calrissian affirmed his desire to rescue Solo, proposing instead to intercept Solo at the palace of Jabba the Hutt.
Organa, accepting that Solo could not immediately be saved, ordered Chewbacca to set course for the Rebel fleet, overriding Calrissian’s objections and again issuing her companion the command. The Wookiee complied, leading Organa and company to discover rebels under attack by Imperial forces at Rendezvous Point Delta-Three. The princess instructed Chewbacca to create a hole in the blockade before taking to the
s guns, Calrissian persuaded the Wookiee to reluctantly allow him to take the pilot’s seat.
s ability to contribute, led Chewbacca to reveal the starship’s ST2 missile launchers which, while effective, could not incapacitate a Star Destroyer. The Wookiee, translated by C-3PO, suggested that they need not destroy an entire ship, just cripple its gun emplacements. Calrissian, acknowledging the plan as crazy, noted a belief that time spent with Solo had made Chewbacca far less rational. Skywalker and Organa destroyed a number of TIE fighters, allowing Calrissian and Chewbacca to make a successful attack run.
Tatooine. Been a long time since I saw this hellhole.
escaped to Backup Rendezvous Point Gamma-Nine, meeting up with the Fourth Division of the Alliance Fleet, where Organa ordered Chewbacca not to let Calrissian out of his sight.
Calrissian pressured Organa to allow him to take the
to Tatooine to confirm whether Jabba had Solo. Organa agreed, but insisted Chewbacca accompany him. The Wookiee roared, intimidating Calrissian and causing him to restate his submission. Calrissian told Chewbacca it was "time to fly," to which the pair agreed the latter would pilot the
The group subsequently parted ways—Organa, Skywalker and the droids remained with the fleet, whereas Chewbacca and Calrissian set out to find Fett and Jabba to rescue Solo.
In orbit of Tatooine, Calrissian and the Wookiee reflected on their distaste at returning to the sand planet before being fired upon by a squadron of TIE fighters, the
having been identified as a wanted ship. The pair debated the fault of the matter, and the TIEs were ambushed and destroyed by a group of Weequay, who hailed the ship and demanded Han Solo. Chewbacca’s first instinct was to fight, but Calrissian, recognizing that they were outmatched, opted for deception. Calrissian cued the Wookiee to power up the
s empty missile tubes and talked his way out of combat and into proceeding to his audience with Jabba.
After the meeting, Calrissian returned to Chewbacca aboard the
, informing him that Jabba did not yet have Solo. Calrissian requested that Chewbacca drop him off and leave him to his own devices, which the latter refused to do.
Tarkin's protégé and Operation Starlight
, princess. Transmit that at the same time as the warning, then switch over to use it for future communications.
HROO. HOOAHHRR. EEERROOO. HEEAHHH. ROOOAHH. HRRARGH!
. You'd just be handing the Imperials the new code too.
Chewbacca was later present after Skywalker's return from Tempes for the Jedi's unveiling of his new lightsaber,
and at a briefing after an attack on the fleet by Imperial forces led by Ellian Zhara.
When Organa revealed the discovery that the Imperials had deciphered the rebels' current encryption codes, Calrissian suggested using another code entirely, leading Chewbacca to voice a concern that whatever new code was used would simply be broken in time as well.
utilized Lobot's cybernetic implants to communicate with Starlight Squadron, endangering the hybroid.
Chewbacca later stood alongside Calrissian and their comrades, staring into a bright light as Skywalker reassured Organa that they would recover Solo.
HRAH! HRROAAH. HHHGH. NNNH. RRRAHGH! RRRH! HNNNNAHHH. RRRNH! RRRRRHHHH HHHHHNH?
…Chewbacca has heard from a contact of his on the Smuggler's Moon of
. Apparently there has been a sighting…of the notorious bounty hunter
. And since he is in possession of the block of frozen
containing our good friend and rebel hero
At some point, Chewbacca put out word of his search for Boba Fett among free Wookiees across the galaxy. The smuggler heard back from Sagwa, a Wookiee he had himself freed from the Spice Mines of Kessel, who reported a sighting of Fett on Nar Shaddaa. Chewbacca subsequently spoke to Skywalker after his lightsaber training in the ship's gym and, with C-3PO translating, requested the Jedi's assistance on a mission to the Smuggler's Moon. Skywalker accepted, though Chewbacca declined his suggestion to bring Calrissian, feeling that Calrissian was untrustworthy and that Solo's reaction to the man would be unpleasant given his betrayal.
Thank you…but I don't understand Shyriiwook.
He said if you truly care about Han Solo, you will trust him to save him. There may come a time when he needs your help…Until then, he asks that you stay out of his way—or he will rip out your cybernetic arms and beat you to death with them. His words, not mine.
to Nar Shaddaa while Skywalker sat in the co-pilot's seat, reflecting on their prior encounter there with Grakkus the Hutt.
The Wookiee traveled to Oruba Square alongside C-3PO, where he convened with a cloaked Mirialan. Chewbacca paid the informant, who then relayed to him that
Sagwa, would meet his fellow Wookiee at the entrance to the local arena. The Wookiee rebuffed C-3PO's complaints, claiming that Nar Shaddaa was "charming," not dreadful as the protocol droid has proposed, and reflected on his prior traumatic electrocution on the Smuggler's Moon before catching wind of "a familiar smell." Chewbacca barged into the crowd before bumping into an old acquaintance—cyborg bounty hunter Beilert Valance.
The cyborg recognized Chewbacca as Solo's ally, while Chewbacca remembered Valance's participation a shootout against the two smugglers on Abregado-Rae. The Wookiee hoisted Valance off his feet and growled at him, the bounty hunter claiming the situation to be a misunderstanding. Valance's partner, rival bounty hunter Dengar, watched, while C-3PO flustered about Chewbacca's failure to maintain a low profile against Skywalker's orders. Valance punched Chewbacca, refusing to allow anyone to interfere in his own search for Solo, while trying to defuse the situation. The bounty hunter lowered his palm blasters in deference, providing Chewbacca the opportunity to throw him into a table where Dengar had taken a seat and ordered a drink.
Chewbacca then grabbed Dengar, the very bounty hunter to electrocute the Wookiee on his last outing to the Smuggler's Moon, C-3PO informing him that the species were notorious for holding grudges. Dengar pulled his blaster and attempted to shoot the Chewbacca, despite an attempt at intervention from Valance, who then kicked the Wookiee's legs out from under him and fashioned a sharpened stick out of a nearby pole. Valance spoke to the events of Abregado-Rae, telling Chewbacca that he did not intend to kill them once he realized Solo was the target, throwing down his weapon and reflecting on his time spent with Solo as Imperial cadets. The bounty hunter concluded that he owed Solo a debt and intended to aid him with or without the Wookiee's permission.
The fight at its end, Chewbacca offered Valance a hand up. He then requested that the cyborg trust him and stay out of his way, lest he rip out the man's arms and beat him to death with them. C-3PO translated for the bounty hunter, who did not understand Shyriiwook, before departing with the Wookiee.
Boba Fett. I think…we might have to find another way to track down Han.
Chewbacca met with Sagwa, embracing him as C-3PO explained their history to Skywalker. Sagwa informed Chewbacca that a new champion had risen in the Garkata arena; a larger than life hologram displayed the fighter, whose Mandalorian armor, Skywalker confirmed, indeed resembled Boba Fett, though the figure was operating under the name Jango. Sagwa, who worked a guard at the arena, led the Chewbacca and his allies to there to check its records for clues to "Jango"'s current location. Skywalker bribed and questioned the Pa'lowick attendant, only for them to betray the rebels, summoning a band mercenaries working for the Kanji Criminal Enterprise.
Skywalker drew his lightsaber and attempted to talk his way past the criminals, culminating in a fight. Chewbacca joined in the confrontation with his bowcaster, but the group became overwhelmed, leading the Jedi to suggest a retreat. The Wookiee voiced his reluctance to leave without more information, but Skywalker, unable to say for certain whether the arena warrior was indeed Fett, doubled down on the decision to escape. Chewbacca fired off a final round of support fire but left with Skywalker, Sagwa, and 3PO.
The rebels and Sawga encountered more hired guns. Skywalker, under fire, directed Chewbacca to commandeer a nearby speeder, which the four used to successfully return to the
s cockpit, where he received a transmission from Organa, instructing the ship to return to the Rebel Fleet, as she had received a transmission from a mystery party claiming to be in possession of Solo. Chewbacca, requesting that the Jedi join him, relayed the message to Skywalker via C-3PO.
What? What's the matter, Chewbacca? Who's Crimson Dawn?
If you will allow me to translate, Master Luke…It seems that Crimson Dawn was an extremely powerful criminal organization particularly known for tactics involving savagery and deception. While they have not been active in the galaxy for many years, Chewbacca has had dealings with them in the past. It did not go well. If they have returned and are in possession of Master Solo, it could be a very delicate and dangerous situation indeed.
Organa rendezvoused with the others aboard the
, declaring it was finally time to save Solo. Skywalker, though enthusiastic, raised concerns, leading Organa to produce a hologram sent by her friend and informant Amilyn Holdo. Organa told Skywalker Hold had informed her that Solo was being held by Crimson Dawn, sending Chewbacca into an agitated state. C-3PO translated Chewbacca for Skywalker, who was unaware of Crimson Dawn, as the Wookiee conveyed the reputation and history of the crime syndicate. The Wookiee also reluctantly suggested involving Calrissian, to which Organa gave the go-ahead. Chewbacca then departed, 3PO accompanying him.
Chewbacca spoke to Calrissian aboard the rebel frigate
, where Calrissian affirmed his willingness to help. The Wookiee later piloted the
through hyperspace to Jekara, where the auction was to be held. Chewbacca backed Calrissian's assessment of Crimson Dawn to Organa before announcing their arrival. Shortly after, the
suffered a minor collision with a frigate that emerged from hyperspace immediately in front of it. The ship, belonging to the Black Sun, launched its fighters, which fired on and pursued the rebels' craft, leading Chewbacca to take it into Jekara's atmosphere. Navigating the planet's icy terrain, the Wookiee managed a crash landing before emerging from the
with Organa and the others, the princess claiming that the team was Solo's only hope.
Though…my olfactory sensors detect the distinctive odor of singed Wookiee fur. Are you quite all right?
My goodness! The pain must be extraordinary!
Chewie's as tough as they come. Right, old buddy? Now
Chewbacca, Calrissian, and Organa infiltrated the auction for Solo, only to encounter Boba Fett, who Organa ordered the Wookiee to take down quietly. Fett taunted Chewbacca with the braids of former Wookiee opponents adorning his armor, causing the hairy rebel to slam the bounty hunter into a wall, blocking Organa's line of sight with her blaster pistol. Calrissian dissuaded Organa from using a blaster and causing a disruption, instead trusting Chewbacca's superiority in hand-to-hand combat. Chewbacca tackled his opponent, but Fett torched the Wookiee with his flamethrower, leading Calrissian to put out the fire with his cape. Fett then left, desiring no further trouble.
Seeing the host of the auction, Lady Qi'ra of Crimson Dawn, beaten by Darth Vader,
who had earlier arrived unannounced to claim Solo for himself,
Calrissian observed that the woman probably deserved what was coming to her, causing Chewbacca to object to the sentiment. Calrissian elaborated that Qi'ra's fate had been of her own making; Qi'ra wouldn't sacrifice her life for Calrissian, nor the Wookiee.
Vader reflected on the Heroes of Yavin, Chewbacca included, as he considered Skywalker.
Organa signaled Skywalker, but the Jedi was unable to fight Vader, leading Leia to formulate a plan herself. The general rallied Chewbacca, outlining a plan in which she would occupy the Sith Lord with blaster fire from above while the Wookiee engaged him on the ground before Calrissian interrupted. As Organa and Calrissian debated, Skywalker managed to distract Vader by taunting him and fleeing in his X-wing, leading Organa, Calrissian, and Chewbacca to return to the
. C-3PO, who had repaired the ship along with Lobot, inquired about the Wookiee's odd smell, to which he related the details of his fight with Boba Fett.
Chewbacca says the ship's diagnostic computer is back online, as Lando suggested it would be. He will begin repairing vital systems immediately.
The rebels pursued the Imperial shuttle that had taken Solo, utilizing Lobot's implants to disable it. Fett and Beilert Valance, with whom Fett had temporarily partnered, also aimed to capture Solo, and incapacitated the
with a reduced–intensity seismic charge.
Dead in space, Chewbacca assisted Calrissian in attempting to repair the ships's systems from the cockpit. The Wookiee observed that Fett's charge had rattled the
, and Calrissian concurred that it had knocked various systems offline. Chewbacca also observed Hutt starfighters heading towards the Imperial shuttle that was carrying Solo, which Lando attributed to Jabba the Hutt desiring Han for himself.
to repair the ship, which proved hazardous as the offline engines caused the reactor conduits to let off a repeating cycle of bursts. Both Organa and Chewbacca volunteered to make the repairs, but Calrissian opted to fix the problem himself, the Wookiee pulling him out at the last minute to prevent him from being fried. Calrissian told Chewbacca that the ship's diagnostic computer should be back online; the Wookiee headed to the cockpit and confirmed as much to C-3PO, who relayed the good news to Organa. Organa offered to help conduct repairs, but Chewbacca believed that she would only get in the way. The Wookiee was subsequently able to restore many of the
The Hutts dispatched fighters to intercept Solo, causing Chewbacca to scream at Calrissian for his role in precipitating the situation as Organa related the situation to Skywalker over the ship's comms. With the repairs made, Calrissian and the Wookiee succeeded in restarting the ships' engines. Organa noted that the point was moot—Solo had already been brought aboard the Super Star Destroyer
received a message from the Imperial ship arranged by Qi'ra, inviting them to board.
Once safely aboard and welcomed by an agent of Crimson Dawn, Chewbacca participated in the rebel attack, downing stormtroopers alongside Organa and Calrissian. The rebels, heaving reached Solo, incapacitated all of the Imperials. Calrissian began trying to figure out how to defrost Solo from carbonite when the group was approached and held at blaster-point by Boba Fett. At that moment, an errant blast blew out the
s hull, sending Solo into space. Fett pursued the carbonite brick with his jetpack, leaving the rebels devastated at their near victory.
Organa later confided in Chewbacca aboard the
, sharing a newfound belief that hope was "for suckers," causing the Wookiee to pull her into a comforting embrace. Calrissian and Lobot sought to return the pair to the Alliance but were interrupted by the arrival of the
, Crimson Dawn's flagship. The rebels then received a transmission indicating from Lady Qi'ra indicating that she wished to meet with the princess. Organa relented, and Qi'ra boarded the
, the Wookiee keeping his bowcaster trained on her until the women left to talk in private.
The princess later called Chewbacca to provide her with a pair of binder cuffs, intending to bring Qi'ra before a rebel tribunal. However, Qi'ra provided the revelation that Solo was alive, stunning Organa and causing the Wookiee to cry out and drop the binders. Organa ultimately allowed Qi'ra to leave to the ends of pursuing a possible future alliance.
Chewie's been spending his time practicing an assault on
palace. He's visualizing it in his head, planning his assault. He even programmed training droids to act like Jabba's guards. He wants to go in there all alone to bring out
Reunited with the fleet, Chewbacca was present at a rebel strategy meeting headed by Senator Mon Mothma and Admiral Gial Ackbar aimed at addressing the Alliance's long–standing secondary objectives, including re-establishing a supply chain and recovering Lieutenant Shara Bay, trapped on the Star Destroyer
and wished to visit Chewbacca before her departure. Leia Organa took her to the Wookiee, explaining that he was practicing a simulated assault on Jabba's palace. Chewbacca had programmed remotes to act as Jabba's sentries and vividly visualized the attack in his mind. He desired to rescue Han Solo single-handedly, a course of action Qi'ra described as ill-advised. Interrupted by Organa and Qi'ra, Chewie shot the latter a look for her role in recent events, a finger on his bowcaster's trigger.
. You should be back with your people. In the
Chewbacca joined Organa in her hunt for Commander Zhara on the planet Panisia, pursuing her into a cave. One of the rebel Pathfinders offered him a knife, only for the Wookiee to reveal that he had brought one himself. The rebels eventually found Zhara, who engaged both the Pathfinders and Chewbacca in melee combat, incapacitating the former and seemingly gaining the upper hand over the latter.
The Imperial focused her attention on Kes Dameron and consequently turned her back on Chewbacca, who hurled her over a ledge and into a cavern below. Organa, who had been similarly displaced, pursued Zhara while Chewbacca and Dameron caught up, ultimately joining the princess in repelling a giant monster the women had found in the cave. After retrieving a datacard from Zhara, Organa left her to die, leaving the cave alongside the Pathfinder and the Wookiee.
in an air raid on an Imperial Unity Day Parade on Bar'leth, the result of which was a major success for the Rebellion. The Wookiee later joined his squadron-mates in toasting to the victory.
Chewbacca also attended an intelligence briefing led by General Hera Syndulla during which Skywalker interjected, expressing a "good feeling" about point five, a transmission intercepted from two Imperial defectors.
You want to know why I did that. Isn't it obvious? The Empire took my world. Kashyyyk is enslaved. My
I have not seen my wife and son in many years. For all I know, they are dead. Palpatine stole the strength of my people and turned our forests to ash. The Wookiees do not have the luxury of
. You said this thing would kill Palpatine. So I killed him.
I understand, Chewbacca. I think we all do. Maybe you did what we couldn't.
―Chewbacca, as translated by C-3PO, and Leia Organa
Skywalker learned of a device that could kill Palpatine, the
. Chewbacca helped to recover the weapon and activated it, though Skywalker subsequently shut it down to prevent it from committing a galaxy–wide genocide in the process.
I have come for the bounty on this Wookiee.
, the team gradually infiltrated the fortress to
the Corellian: First, Calrissian infiltrated as a guard, then the droids as Skywalker's "gift," then Leia Organa posing as the bounty hunter
with Chewbacca as her quarry; she convinced Jabba with a thermal detonator, so the Hutt had Chewbacca imprisoned.
That night, Organa freed Solo from his encasement at the cost of her freedom, for Jabba had caught her red-handed, and whereas the princess was to remain at the Hutt's side, Solo was thrown in a cell together with Chewbacca, who gave him a passionate embrace, happy to reunite with his old friend, and told him that Skywalker would free them with the skills he had learned as a
Han, Luke, and Chewbacca are sentenced to death by Jabba the Hutt.
Skywalker did indeed arrive and requested an audience with Jabba by
. After Skywalker was pit against Jabba's
and defeated it, the enraged Hutt ordered the execution of Chewbacca, Solo and Skywalker by casting them into the
that resided there. Brought to the pit in a
and freed Chewbacca and Solo from their bonds. However, one of Jabba's staff fired at them, injuring Chewbacca, and leaving the near-blind Solo to rescue Calrissian from falling into the pit. While Organa assassinated Jabba himself, the group went on to slay the rest of the Hutt's thugs, before destroying the crime lord's
and returning to the Rebel Fleet aboard the
Keep your distance, Chewie, but don't look like you're keeping your distance. […] I don't know – fly casual.
―Han to Chewbacca during the mission to Endor
On the meeting to debrief the Alliance on the plan to destroy the
, Chewbacca volunteered for a mission to destroy the
, intent on following Solo, newly-appointed General of the Alliance. Joined by Organa, Skywalker, C-3PO and R2-D2, the strike team approached the moon aboard the captured Imperial
, with Chewbacca piloting the ship. As the team waited to be cleared to land by the
which was overseeing the blockade of the moon, Solo urged the Wookiee to "fly casual," landing only after they were granted access by Darth Vader.
Chewbacca , on Endor, with the command crew of the Endor strike team.
On the moon, they advanced through the forest and encountered Imperial
, to whom Solo accidentally reveal their position. Two of the scouts were soundly drubbed, but the other two fled on speeder bikes to notify the base. They were stopped by Organa and Skywalker, who were separated, prompting Chewbacca, Solo, the droids and Skywalker to search for her while the rest of the Rebel team made their way to the generator, to rendezvous with them the next morning.
During their search, Chewbacca came across a dead animal
bait to him. He pulled at it, springing a trap that ensnared the entire group, thus resulting in the team being captured by
. Chewbacca was forced to surrender his bowcaster and was tied to a large pole, whereas C-3PO was treated like a
to become part of the banquet in C-3PO's honor. However, Skywalker tricked the Ewoks into thinking C-3PO had unleashed his "
him with the Force, which prompted the Ewoks to release them at once. Later that night, after C-3PO's retelling of the events of Yavin and Cloud City,
declared them all part of their tribe, with one Ewok giving Chewbacca an enthusiastic hug.
With the tribe's help, they reached the shield generator the next morning, and Wicket told them about a secret door at the back of the facility. Chewbacca accompanied the others and successfully entered the Imperial base. However, Palpatine was aware of their plans, as were the Imperial forces stationed at the moon, who swiftly captured them as the
against the Death Star above began. A surprise attack by the Ewoks, however, scattered the Imperial troops, distracting them long enough for Organa and Solo to take positions at the base's door, and for Chewbacca to steal AT-ST
Using the commandeered walker, they reached the generator's back entrance, where Solo boarded the Imperial transport to broadcast a message to the generator's personnel while posing as an Imperial officer, thereby tricking the installation's crew into opening the door.
Chewbacca and his companions celebrating the Rebel victory at Endor
Thanks to the success of Han Solo's ploy, the Rebel forces, Chewbacca among them, stormed the bunker, detonating explosive charges and disabling the shield generator, allowing Calrissian,
to destroy the Death Star above. Chewbacca looked to the sky and cheered as he witnessed the final destruction of the battle station and, later that night, he celebrated at Bright Tree Village over a bonfire; Chewbacca danced in triumph along with his friends, old and new.
During the celebration, Calrissian told Solo and Chewbacca that the
Chewbacca at the wedding of Han Solo and Leia Organa.
Following the Battle of Endor, Chewbacca would join Han and their rebel companions in the Rebel Alliance's struggle against the remnants of the Empire. The morning after, he would take part in the
on an Imperial holdout on far side of Endor, the Rebels hitting the base hard and fast, and entering to find their
with data that signaled the war was not over yet.
After Solo proposed to Organa in the days after the Battle of Endor, he made sure to tell Chewbacca. Chewbacca had always suspected Solo would settle down—although Organa retorted that marrying her was the opposite of settling down—and knew his friend would end up marrying Organa, even declaring at one point to Skywalker that he would drop both on a deserted world as a means of getting them to admit their feelings. Chewbacca then attended the party Calrissian threw for Solo in honor of the wedding, taking a particular enjoyment in the food Calrissian had set out, and the
Chewbacca participated alongside Solo, C-3PO, Kes Dameron,
Dameron's life after he and Sakas made an opening on the black site. Chewbacca also fetched C-3PO, who had fallen behind, to enter the facility and slice its computers. The group then became aware of the concurrent
and contacted Calrissian to deploy the Alliance Fleet so as to successfully aid the besieged
C'mon, Chewie. Set new coordinates. It's time to get you home.
that took him to Akiva, Chewbacca and Solo went on their own mission to find the Empire's supply lines, during which they visited several planets, including Ord Mantell,
. However, Chewbacca was forced to remain on the
, while Solo investigated on his own; having grown bored, he got to messing around with the ship's navigation system, trying to chase down a glitch that had been screwing up the hyperspace drive. Though he fixed it, the guns stopped working, which they only discovered when they were ambushed by a trio of
contacted the duo and informed them that they had a window of opportunity—Kashyyyk, still in the Empire's thrall, would have its blockade temporarily lifted for a few days, before its ships were replaced. Seeing Chewbacca's anxiety, Solo told Imra to gather any underworld scoundrel who owed him a favor, anyone who hated the Empire, and others in the false promise that they would obtain full pardons from the Republic, whereas Chewbacca was tasked to contact the Wookiee
When Han's wife Leia learned about Han Solo's hastily-improvised plan, she tried to advice her husband and Chewbacca not to trust Imra. However, Han and Chewbacca were determined to proceed with their
to liberate Kashyyyk. Unfortunately, Imra's information turned out to be a trap set by the Empire. While Chewbacca attempted to board a gunship captained by Kirratha, they were attacked by two Star Destroyers and several TIE fighters. The Imperials shot out Kirratha's engines, leaving Chewbacca and Kirratha stranded in space. Han managed to escape but Chewbacca was captured and locked inside the automated Imperial prison
in the jungles of Kashyyyk. Solo traveled through Wild Space on the
in attempt to find a way to free his friend.
Later, Solo discovered that Ashmead's Lock had been designed by the
, who resided on a secluded compound in the planet
. Han was joined by a team of rebels consisting of the New Republic starfighter pilot
. Norra and her team had been sent by Princess Leia to rescue Han. Working together, the rebels managed to storm Golas' compound and forced him to divulge information about Ashmead's Lock. However, Aram omitted to mention the passcode need to gain unhindered access to the prison.
Following a struggle with Ashmead Lock's computer system
, Solo and Jas managed to disable the prison's power generator, which was fueled by the prisoners who were held in stasis. Solo managed to free Chewbacca and a hundred other prisoners including Norra's husband and Temmin's father
. Following an emotional reunion, Chewbacca stayed behind with Solo, Sinjir, Jas, and Jom while Norra, Temmin, and Mister Bones returned with the other liberated prisoners to the New Republic
For the next month, Han and Chewbacca organized a campaign to hunt down
, the governor of Kashyyyk. Lozen had fitted all of the Wookiees living on Kashyyyk with
which he controlled using a control module that he kept on his person. In order to defeat Grand Moff Tolruck, Chewbacca and his rebel allies devoted their time to finding Tolruck's
. Jas also recruited more Wookiee exiles and smugglers for their planned uprising. During this time, Jom was captured and imprisoned by Tolruck.
The Liberation of Kashyyyk (a moment of the liberation pictured) finally saw Chewbacca reunited with his family
While Chewbacca, Han, and the rest of the team infiltrated
, Sinjir infiltrated Tolruck's palace disguised as an Imperial officer. Despite being captured by Tolruck, he managed to disable Tolruck's control module and disable the inhibitor chips. This set off a mass Wookiee uprising all over Kashyyyk. Meanwhile, Chewbacca and his team fought off a
while Jas destroyed Camp Sardo's deflector shield generator. With the aid of Han's rebel forces, the Wookiees managed to overwhelm the meager Imperial garrison on Kashyyyk.
After Grand Moff Tolruck summoned the three orbiting Imperial Star Destroyers to bombard Kashyyyk, Chewbacca and his fellow rebels helped usher the liberated Wookiees into underground shelters. In response, Chewbacca along with Han, Sinjir, and Jom Barell traveled aboard the Star Destroyer
and fought their way to the bridge. However, the rebels were captured by stormtroopers and hauled before
Before Korgale could deal with the prisoners, New Republic reinforcements arrived in the form of Princess Leia aboard the
. Chewbacca and his allies managed to break free from their captors and seize control of the
. As a result, the remaining Imperial Star Destroyer
capitulated to the New Republic. Following the liberation of Kashyyyk, Chewbacca stayed behind to reunite with his family at the insistence of Han Solo. Solo then left on the
to look after his wife and his unborn son Ben Solo.
In the successive months, Chewbacca took part in mopping up operations against the remaining Imperial holdouts on Kashyyyk. While accompanying Greybok and several New Republic soldiers on one such operation, they stumbled upon
and several Imperial soldiers preparing to execute an escaped Wookiee slave who turned out to be Chewbacca's son Lumpawaroo. The Wookiees and New Republic soldiers killed Dessard's men and took the officer prisoner. Chewbacca personally restrained Dessard by stepping over the commandant and placing a tree-trunk led on his back, forcing him to the ground. Chewbacca then experienced an emotional reunion with his lost son, who had been forced to work at a child labor camp on the slopes of
No. No! You have to stay here. We fought like hell for this and now…this is yours. Okay? All yours. This is home. You got people here and I want you to find them. You hear me? That's my last demand. No arguments.
―Han Solo to Chewbacca after liberating Kashyyyk
Once Kashyyyk was freed from the Imperials, Chewbacca returned to his homeworld and reestablished connections with his family.
He settled back into a peaceful domestic life on his homeworld but kept in touch with his old friend Han Solo, who had become the business owner of a shipping company and the manager of a series of prestigious piloting championships known as the
. Chewbacca had infrequent contact with Solo's wife Leia Organa, who had become a leading
During his retirement, Chewbacca was remembered by the galaxy as a hero of the Rebellion and the New Republic.
included Chewbacca by his nickname Chewie on a list of names written in a device on his gauntlet.
to Senator Organa to wish her good recovery. After revelations about Leia's true parentage as the daughter of Darth Vader destroyed her political career, Chewbacca along with other former Rebel Alliance veterans like Ackbar, Nunb, Calrissian, and Mothma sent messages of supported to the embattled senator.
Despite his peaceful retirement, Chewbacca decided to join him when Han Solo resumed his smuggling activities. Fortunately, the strong familial bonds and the extended lifespan of the Wookiees allowed him to spend decades away from his people.
Thing people forget about Wookiees. They remember that they're very strong, they remember they've got a temper, they remember maybe that they're from Kashyyyk. But they forget one thing.
They can be very, very quiet when it suits them. Isn't that right, Chewie?
Confrontation with bounty hunters in the
Chewbacca and Solo continued their partnership. Chewbacca would keep an eye out for him, including one time during which Solo engaged a trio of bounty hunters—
cantina, and told them about their mission to Cyrkon before they realized who he was. Once they were aware of Solo's identity, Chewbacca sneaked behind them and took hold of Rigger, only to send him flying to the
s door and knock Strater out with a punch, while Solo disarmed Bobbie. Then, the Corellian told them to warn their possible employers (
, etc.) that they were not afraid of them, before saying goodbye to Leighton and leaving the bar together.
with Chewbacca after recapturing the freighter
was stolen from Han and Chewbacca and they were using a
using their freighter's tractor beam after it was found floating in space not too far from the planet
. Upon boarding their old vessel, Han and Chewbacca went about inspecting their ship and found the Jakku scavenger
hiding, whom Han assumed were the thieves that had stolen the
. When Rey and Finn explained that they were going to take a droid named
to the Resistance as he had a map that would reveal Luke's location, Han and Chewbacca agreed to help them.
Unfortunately, their freighter was boarded by two notorious criminal factions, the Guavian Death Gang and
, who had hired Solo on previous jobs, which he had failed to complete. Not wanting Rey and Finn to be involved, Han placed both of them in the lower corridors of the freighter while he and Chewbacca went to meet with the criminals, with BB-8 accompanying them. The smuggler tried but failed to convince both parties that he would fix things eventually, with the Guavian Death Gang negotiator,
from a First Order bounty placed on it. They demanded that Han hand over the droid and any stowaways he might have on board. As the scuffle continued, Rey accidentally released three
. Han, Chewbacca, Finn, Rey, and BB-8 managed to escape the gangs and jumped into hyperspace in the
, though Chewbacca was injured from a blaster shot during the escape.
Chewbacca, Han and Finn are captured by the First Order on Takodana.
Chewbacca accompanied Han, Rey, Finn, and BB-8 to meet with
was tipped off that BB-8 was with them, they
. During the fighting at the castle, despite killing multiple stormtroopers, Han, Chewbacca, and Finn were captured by the First Order. However, the Resistance had also been tipped off, and Resistance
arrived to fight the First Order. A fierce dogfight ensued and resulted in the destruction of many First Order TIEs and the deaths of many stormtroopers from X-wing strafing runs. Ren ordered the First Order to pull out, saying they had what they came for. As the battle raged on above the castle, the remaining First Order troops boarded their ships and retreated, taking the captured and unconscious Rey along with them. Despite the First Order being driven off, Han witnessed Kylo Ren carrying Rey away. The remaining
crew then rendezvoused with the Resistance at their home base.
There Chewbacca's wounds were treated by Resistance doctor, Major
As Starkiller Base prepared to wipe out the world of D'Qar, the site of the Resistance's headquarters, the Resistance planned an attack of their own. Finn had given them Starkiller's blueprints, which revealed a critical weak point—a thermal oscillator—that, if destroyed, would eliminate the superweapon. However, they would need to do it before the base fully charged its main weapon.
Chewbacca with Han and Finn, en route to Starkiller Base.
to Starkiller Base accompanied by Chewbacca and Finn. Their objective was to disable the shields and allow the X-wing squadron to strike, although Finn's main objective was to rescue Rey. Flying through the shields at lightspeed, the
landed roughly on the edge of a cliff. Han, Chewbacca, and Finn snuck into the main base and captured
, who they forced to disable Starkiller's shields before disposing her in a
. They reunited with Rey, who had already escaped on her own. With the shields down, Blue Squadron and Red Squadron led by Poe Dameron commenced
. They fired on the base's weak point, but failed to destroy it as the First Order sent TIE fighters to stage a counterattack and throw the Resistance into chaos.
Seeing this, Han, Chewbacca, Finn, and Rey tried to create an opening by planting thermal detonators inside the base. Han then confronted his son, Kylo Ren, named Ben Solo at birth, on a bridge over a large pit, pleading with his son to reject Snoke and return to the light side of the Force. Ben, removing his mask and seeming almost regretful, handed his lightsaber to Solo, and asked for his father's help, in which Solo replied that he would do anything for him. Ben then thrust his weapon through Han's chest. Witnessed by Rey, Finn, and Chewbacca, Han stroked his son's face for the last time, before falling to his death. Howling in fury, Chewbacca fired on Ren with his bowcaster, while Finn and Rey also fired on Ren and the surrounding stormtroopers. Chewbacca managed to land a hit on Ren's waist with his bowcaster, injuring him, but Ren managed to chase them out of the base. Chewbacca then detonated the charges, allowing Poe to fly in and destroy Starkiller's weak point thirty seconds before it drained the sun to charge its main weapon. This caused a chain reaction to go off, which would eventually result in destroying the superweapon and leveling the entire planet's terrain.
As Chewbacca made his exit from the base, he briefly debated upon whether to pursue and kill Kylo Ren. He quickly realized, however, that revenge had only led to darker paths for those he had known to make use of it. Thus Chewbacca quickly decided that saving those still alive was the better alternative. He quickly commandeered a snow speeder and headed back to the
which was guarded by six Snowtroopers. One by one, Chewbacca took them out and entered the
then rose from the snow and headed off to find Rey and Finn.
Shortly afterward, Chewbacca arrived with the
to rescue the scavenger and Finn, who was severely wounded by Ren. They and the remainder of the Resistance fleet managed to escape Starkiller Base as it erupted into a star, and entered hyperspace to return to D'Qar.
The Resistance celebrated their victory while Leia, Chewbacca, and Rey mourned Han's death. R2-D2 suddenly awoke and revealed that he held the map to Luke's location, with the only piece of the map missing being the one BB-8 was given by Poe. Together they completed the map and revealed the location of the planet on which Luke Skywalker was hiding. Using this, Chewbacca, R2-D2, and Rey flew aboard the
After Rey tried and failed to recruit Luke Skywalker, Chewbacca decided to help her in convincing his old friend into helping them by busting in his hut. When Luke heard of Han Solo's death, Chewbacca comforted him. Chewbacca was later seen aboard the
when Luke came in to remember all the good times he had in his adventure. Later that evening, Chewbacca caught and roasted two
for dinner, but relented when their brethren approached him, watching sadly before scaring them away.
between the remaining forces of the Resistance and a First Order invasion army, Chewbacca piloted the
, using it to lure the Order's TIE fighters away from a force of Resistance
. After the battle, he landed the ship and used it to evacuate the surviving members of the Resistance.
During the Resistance's time on Anoat, Chewbacca piloted the
to save Rey after she provoked an attack by an
, Finn and Poe Dameron engaged Chewbacca in an intense game of dejarik. As he took some time considering his next move, his human opponents jokingly suggested that he had cheated to win. The implication infuriated Chewbacca, forcing Finn and Poe to calm him. Their game was interrupted by an alarm from the cockpit, and Chewbacca ordered his opponents not to turn off the game as he left to check it, but Finn and Poe agreed that he was cheating and shut off the holochess board.
arrived at the Sinta Glacier Colony, and Finn opened the docking hatch to meet a Resistance informant,
, who informed them about a spy in the First Order and gave them a message in the form of a data encoder, ordering them to give it to General Organa. As First Order TIE fighters jumped into the system, the Resistance members downloaded the message into R2-D2 and made their escape. Poe damaged the
in the escape, angering Chewbacca, and further infuriated him performing several
The group returned to the Resistance base on
bearing the knowledge they obtained from Boolio. They decoded the information, and Poe stated that Darth Sidious' return was confirmed, and that the
in the Unknown Regions, but without any leads to the true location of Exegol. Rey, however, had learned from Luke Skywalker's notes in the Jedi texts of a relic known as a
that could lead to Exegol. Resolving to continue Luke's search, Rey, Finn, Poe, Chewbacca, BB-8, and C-3PO departed in the
exited hyperspace over the desert planet of Pasaana and landed at Luke's coordinates near the
. Wandering among the crowd, the group attempted to lay low and blend in. Unsurprisingly, Chewbacca struggled to slouch and keep his head low. At this time, Kylo Ren established a connection with Rey through their
and stole a necklace she had received from the Aki-Aki. Rey rushed to warn her comrades that the First Order knew their location and that they needed to find the wayfinder quickly. As they prepared to escape, a lone stormtrooper confronted them before being quickly shot by a mysterious figure. Asking the team to follow him into a
, the masked savior revealed himself to be Lando Calrissian, who had seen Chewbacca in the crowd.
Lando showed them a hologram of a Sith wayfinder and explained that only two were ever created. He further revealed that many years prior, he accompanied Luke went in search of the a Sith loyalist named
, whom they believed held a key to locating one of the devices, but when they arrived, they found his ship, the
, abandoned. The old hero of the Rebellion offered them directions to Ochi's ship in the desert where he left it, as squadrons of TIEs and First Order dropships flew overhead. Chewbacca and the crew hurried through the crowds to the fringes of the festival, eventually stealing a pair of skiff speeders and attracting the attention of two
Chewbacca and his allies begin to sink into the Shifting Mires.
The troopers proved no match for the Resistance and were swiftly dispatched, though not before sending the stolen speeders crashing into the quicksands of the
. Chewbacca and his comrades fell into a web of caves below the surface, quickly joining up as they used the glow of the Skywalker blade and Poe's diminutive flashlight to guide themselves through a series of underground tunnels. There, they discovered the remains of Ochi, his speeder, and a
, the clue that Lando and Luke sought after. Rey felt a very strong connection to the weapon, but couldn't quite articulate it. C-3PO identified the writing as a Sith language depicting the location of the wayfinder, but revealed that his programming restricted him from translating the script. While pondering their next move, the Resistance team found themselves cornered by a giant, aggressive
Noticing that the serpent was wounded, Rey approached and used the Force to
its injuries, satiating it and providing them an exit out of the tunnels. Chewbacca took possession of the dagger, placing it in his satchel as the group headed to escape the planet in the
. Unbeknownst to Chewbacca and the crew, the
had arrived on Pasaana to hunt them down. Sensing Kylo Ren's presence, Rey walked out into the desert to confront him alone, but Chewbacca was captured by the Knights before he could retrieve her. The dagger was taken from him as he boarded a First Order transport. Rey and Kylo both noticed the departure of a transport, and while she used the Force to pull the ship back to the ground, Kylo counteracting her by pushing it away. In her frustration,
blasted from Rey's hand, destroying the transport and sending it crashing to the ground. Horrified at the thought of killing Chewbacca, Rey screamed in despair before boarding Ochi's ship with the rest of her crew.
As Ochi's ship hurried away from Pasaana, the Resistance team mourned the apparent loss of Chewbacca and the dagger. C-3PO remorsefully told his companions that the dagger's inscription was only committed to his memory. they plan is made to hack into C-3PO's programming to bypass the restrictions. Poe mentioned that he has an old contact on the planet
, General Hux presented to Allegiant General Pryde a "valuable prisoner" taken during the fighting: Chewbacca, still alive and safe aboard a different transport. The elder commander, unfazed by the roaring of the Wookiee, ordered he be taken to
. Shortly after, Kylo Ren returned to the
, having failed to accomplish his task set by Palpatine. On Kijimi, Poe tracked down an old contact of his,
to override C-3PO's programming to read the Sith language on the dagger, at the cost of his memories.
Chewbacca and his allies were nearly executed by stormtroopers on the
During the process, the Knights of Ren arrived on Kijimi after following the Resistance group there. At the sight of the
in the sky, Rey sensed that Chewbacca had survived, and the group staged a rescue mission aboard the Star Destroyer with the help of Zorii. As they boarded, Rey followed the feeling that she needed the dagger, recovering it along with Chewbacca's bowcaster and bandolier. Meanwhile, Poe and Finn rescued Chewbacca, but their rescue attempt failed and resulted in their capture. Pryde ordered Hux to execute the Resistance members, but Hux turned on his troops, revealed himself to be the Resistance spy, and guided the crew to the
. Before departing Kijimi, they rescued Rey from her confrontation with Kylo Ren in the Star Destroyer's hangar bay.
and Chewbacca stayed behind to repair the
as Rey attempted to find the wayfinder aboard the
of the second Death Star. While she eventually recovered the wayfinder, Kylo Ren arrived and destroyed it. In the ensuing lightsaber duel, both Kylo and Rey sensed the death of Leia, giving Rey the chance to defeat him and escape in his ship. Following Rey's departure, Chewbacca and the remainder of the Resistance crew boarded the
and returned to their hidden base on Ajan Kloss. Upon returning, Chewbacca learned of Leia's death and mourned her along with the rest of the Resistance.
Maz Kanata gives Chewbacca Solo's medal.
Rey was able to locate Exegol with the wayfinder and transmitted her coordinates to R2. The Resistance then used the coordinates to mount a full-scale assault on the Sith fleet. The Resistance was met with formidable force as the
prepared to overtake the galaxy. Overwhelmed and hopeless, Poe apologized to the Resistance and conceded that the enemy was too formidable to defeat. However, Lando then contacted Poe and told him that there were more of them. Piloting the
along with Chewbacca and Wedge Antilles, Lando led a fleet of reinforcements to aid the Resistance. During the battle, Sidious severely damaged the Resistance fleet with a massive burst of
. However, with the help of their allies and the final destruction of Sidious, the Resistance was able to defeat the remaining Sith forces and save the galaxy.
Upon returning to Ajan Kloss, the Resistance celebrated their victory. During the celebration, Maz called Chewbacca over to her and awarded the Wookiee a medal
Chewbacca crushes a stormtrooper under his foot
Known for his great strength, bravery, and loyalty, Chewbacca often served as Solo's conscience in their smuggling endeavors,
which made people trust him more than they did Solo.
However, he was also known for his stubbornness and dislike of losing.
He would also show no qualms about using violence as a means to achieve his goals, but he certainly never killed without a good reason.
As a Wookiee, Chewbacca knew passion and thus, the Rebellion, and would have stood with them from the beginning, if not for Solo and the
; he would not abandon them as he was bound to both, as they were to him.
Few people knew that he had a mushy heart under his warrior exterior.
He was a kind individual and was good at reading a room.
Chewbacca enjoyed tinkering with mechanics. Sometimes, when he was bored, he would "mess around" with the
Like Han Solo, he regarded the ship as the epitome of classical design, ignoring the vast majority of observers who called it "junk."
Chewbacca was fiercely loyal to Han Solo, having sworn a life debt to him.
When his friend Han Solo briefly went missing while conducting a night time search and rescue mission on the planet Hoth, Chewbacca was visibly upset and worried while he awaited Solo's return. Later, when Solo was to be encased in carbonite in Cloud City, he tried to fight to save him despite the presence of the Sith Lord Darth Vader and an Imperial security detail.
Chewbacca's desire to free his family and people led him to take part in Han Solo's campaign to liberate Kashyyyk from Imperial rule. He came up with the idea of using webweaver spiders to storm the Star Destroyer
Chewbacca loved his wife Mallatobuck and son Lumpawaroo, who had been separated from him by the Empire. He and his son experienced an emotional reunion during the liberation of Kashyyyk.
When Lando Calrissian made a joke about Solo settling down by getting married, Solo remarked he was following Chewbacca's example, which made the Wookiee respond with a proud roar. Chewbacca nodded in agreement and had a smug expression on his face when Calrissian tipped his glass in Malla's honor, calling her a lucky woman.
He was known to become angry when losing such games.
Chewie is an extrordinarily gifted mechanic and engineer. I've seen him fix ships that were hanging together by one wire.
Chewbacca was a skilled marksman with his custom bowcaster
Besides the characteristic strength of his species, Chewbacca possessed exceptional skills in piloting as well as mechanic repairs, from his experience of piloting the
, of which he had a great understanding of the temperamental nature of its systems.
Chewbacca was notably faster at operating the Falcon's controls, a fact he kept hidden from Han to prevent hurting the smuggler's ego.
Although not particularly meticulous, Chewbacca's technical skill allowed him to understand the inner workings of a great number of devices, including droids
and transmitters, being able to build one out of a wrecked starship.
Like many of his people, Chewbacca preferred their native bowcaster as his personal weapon. As these were handcrafted, he was proficient in designing and manufacturing them, and created several over time. The latest known bowcaster that he crafted was during the
. It was an unconventional design, as he had used the frame and
He is also skilled in using other blaster range weapons like a
, R2 shot out four lightsabers to Han, Chewbacca, and Leia. Chewbacca caught two of them and used both the blue-blade and green-blade lightsaber to fight off the
I sat down on one of the sofas, waiting for George. Door opened, and George walked in with Gary behind him. So, naturally, what did I do? I'm raised in England. Soon as someone comes in through the door, I stand up. George goes 'Hmm...' Virtually turned to Gary, and said 'I think we've found him.'
. He had a major role in both of the subsequent films of the
Finnish basketball coach and insurance salesman
doubled as Chewbacca for some of the more physical scenes in
John Schoenherr's illustration (left) and Ralph McQuarrie's Chewbacca concept art (right)
Chewbacca was a major character in many stories of the Expanded Universe, the continuity now known as
Chewbacca's death in this publication was marked as Number One in the
20 Most Memorable Moments of the Expanded Universe
, the Expanded Universe was declared non-
as a whole, with the only elements considered canon being the original and prequel films, the television series
that launched it, and most material released after that date.
placed off-limits the possibility to use Chewbacca in
though he later appeared in the third season episode "
I had an Alaskan Malamute when I was writing the film. A very sweet dog, she would always sit next to me when I was writing. And when I'd drive around, she'd sit in the front seat. A Malamute is a very large dog—like a hundred and thirty pounds and bigger than a human being and very long-haired. Having her with me all the time inspired me to give Han Solo a sidekick who was like a big, furry dog. Not quite like a dog, but intelligent.
George Lucas (left) with Indiana, who inspired Chewbacca's creation
George Lucas came up with the concept of Chewbacca after people mistook
, as a human riding beside him in his car.
There were many early versions of Chewbacca's appearance (including one concept art that eventually became the basis of the
to make concept art of Chewbacca, Lucas gave him a picture of a
for reference. Stuart Freeborn, the make-up artist that transformed Mayhew into Chewbacca, was given a different reference point, and he was instructed to make a creature that is a mix of a
and a dog. Freeburn was influenced by the monkey-man creatures that he recently worked on in the
Chewbacca's final appearance in the movie is based on a
, which in turn was based on an illustration by John Schoenherr for George R.R. Martin's novelette "And Seven Times Never Kill a Man," published in the July
issue of Analog. The Schoenherr illustration also includes a weapon that became an inspiration for Chewbacca's bowcaster.
His final appearance became a mix of a dog, cat, lemur, and a
, Chewbacca had a father named Auzituck. He was an eight-
-tall, feeble but regally dressed Wookiee who was the chief of the
The parts making up the Chewbacca costume.
For his appearances in the original trilogy, the Chewbacca suit, designed by
, was made out of knitted mohair (made from goat and rabbit hair) and yak hair. It would later be used and retouched during the making of
, Chewbacca was completely remade, with newer, more efficient and cost-effective materials. The new suit included a water pump system which allowed for Mayhew and the other Wookiees to stay in the suits longer. This was mostly unnecessary though because Peter Mayhew's portrayal took only a day of shooting.
The memorable voice of Chewbacca was designed by
, sound designer for all nine films. Creating Chewbacca's voice was Burtt's first job for
. He mixed together various animal growls for different emotions, including those of walruses, lions, badgers, bears,
and sick animals. The most heavily used sound came from
, Tarik passed away at the age of 16 from a combination of congestive heart failure, liver disease, and cancer.
Explore all of Wookieepedia's media for this article subject:
Forces of Destiny: Daring Adventures: Volume 2
Solo: A Star Wars Story: Expanded Edition
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Choose Your Destiny: A Han & Chewie Adventure
The Mighty Chewbacca in the Forest of Fear!
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
A New Hope: The Princess, the Scoundrel, and the Farm Boy
The Adventures of Luke Skywalker, Jedi Knight
Star Wars: The Original Trilogy – A Graphic Novel
(Appears in final page illustration only)
Chewie vs. Holochess - Let the Wookiee Win
Han Solo – Taking Flight for his Friends
Luke vs. the Death Star - X-wing Assault
Smuggler's Run: A Han Solo & Chewbacca Adventure
Galactic Adventures Storybook Collection
The Princess and the Bog, A Twin Tale, Part 1
Galactic Adventures Storybook Collection
The Weapon of a Jedi: A Luke Skywalker Adventure
Choose Your Destiny: A Luke & Leia Adventure
The Empire Strikes Back: So You Want to Be a Jedi?
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Tales of Villainy: Invasion of Echo Base
Han Solo vs. the Space Slug - The Escape Artist
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Moving Target: A Princess Leia Adventure
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Return of the Jedi: Beware the Power of the Dark Side!
Star Wars Galactic Stories: 7 Stories from a Galaxy Far, Far Away....
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Tales from a Galaxy Far, Far Away: Aliens: Volume I
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: A Junior Novel
Choose Your Destiny: A Maz's Castle Mission
(Indirectly mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
(Indirectly mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
(Indirectly mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: A Junior Novel
Helping Chewbacca Save The Millennium Falcon!
Who's Making That Noise in The Millennium Falcon?!
Flight of the Falcon, Part 2: The Planet of Misfit Droids
Flight of the Falcon, Part 3: Home Again
Flight of the Falcon, Part 4: Lady and the Tramp
Flight of the Falcon, Part 5: Grand Theft Falcon
Star Wars Adventures: Flight of the Falcon
Black Spire: Return to a Shattered Planet
Tales from Wild Space: Mattis Makes a Stand
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Chewbacca used a SX-21 scatterblaster during his early days with Han Solo.
Star Wars Epic Yarns: The Empire Strikes Back
Star Wars Epic Yarns: Return of the Jedi
William Shakespeare's Tragedy of the Sith's Revenge: Star Wars Part the Third
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars Should Have Used The Force
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars Should Have Joined Forces
LEGO Star Wars Should Have Joined Forces
William Shakespeare's Jedi the Last: Star Wars Part the Eighth
From Trenches to Wrenches: The Roger Story
Ben Solo and the Bug Hunters – Chapter 1
Ben Solo and the Bug Hunters – Chapter 2
Ben Solo and the Bug Hunters – Chapter 3
Drawing from the Present: Familiar Creatures in a Galaxy Far, Far Away
"Rising Malevolence" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Wookiee Hunt" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
Highlights of the Saga: Duel in Cloud City
Highlights of the Saga: The Capture of Han Solo
UPDATED: Crush the Rebellion or Restore Freedom in
Highlights of the Saga: Sabotage Mission
Highlights of the Saga: Peril in the Asteroid Field
Star Wars Costumes: The Original Trilogy
Princess Leia Organa - Rebel Leader (ESB)
Databank A-Z: E-11 Blaster–Cornelius Evazan
Weapons & Uniforms: Jabba's Skiff Guards
Highlights of the Saga: Assault on Endor
Highlights of the Saga: Battle of Kashyyyk
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Star Wars Master Models: Millennium Falcon
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: New Adventures
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
Highlights of the Saga: Alderaan Survives!
Databank A-Z: Petranaki Arena–Proton Torpedoes
Star Wars Origami: 11 Amazing Paper Folding Projects from a Galaxy Far, Far Away.... Characters
Databank A-Z: Admiral Wiskovis–The Works
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia: Updated and Expanded
Highlights of the Saga: Infiltrating Starkiller Base
Highlights of the Saga: The Raid on Takodana
Highlights of the Saga: Striking at the New Republic
Highlights of the Saga: Escaping Cloud City
Card: Chewbacca - Millennium Falcon Co-Pilot
Weapons & Uniforms: Mos Eisley Spaceport Cantina
Highlights of the Saga: Assault on Starkiller Base
Much to Learn You Still Have: 8 Things You Might Not Know About Wookiees
Highlights of the Saga: The Hunt for Luke Skywalker
Weapons & Uniforms: Heroes of the Resistance
Highlights of the Saga: Help from an Old Friend
Weapons & Uniforms: Denizens of Maz Kanata's Castle
Entertainment Weekly's Ultimate Guide to Rogue One
Weapons & Uniforms: The 41st Elite Corps
Droid Directory: R2-series Astromech Droids, Part 1
Droid Directory: 3PO-series Protocol Droids, Part 1
Droid Directory: 2-1B-series Medical Droids, Part 1
Building the Galaxy: Filming R2-D2, Part 3
Star Wars Super Graphic: A Visual Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle for Jedha
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, Updated and Expanded
Forces of Destiny: Tales of Hope & Courage
Star Wars: The Last Jedi Activity Book with Stickers
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Ultimate Sticker Collection
Behind the Cameras: Evolution of Stormtroopers
Behind the Cameras: The Creation of Kashyyyk
Star Wars Universe: The Battle of Kashyyyk
Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles
The Last Jedi: Rose Tico: Resistance Fighter
Solo: A Star Wars Story The Official Guide
Creating a Starship Fleet: Ralph McQuarrie — The Man Who Drew
Starfighter Aces: Luke Skywalker — Savior of the Rebel Alliance
Solo: A Star Wars Story: Tales from Vandor
Chewbacca — Modified YT-1300 Light Freighter
YT-1300 Millennium Falcon Owners' Workshop Manual
"The Core Problem" Episode Guide | Star Wars Resistance
Starfighter Aces: Han Solo — Scrumrat to Fighter Pilot
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia, New Edition
Droids and Animatronic Creatures of Star Wars Live Panel at SWCC 2019
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
Starfighter Aces: Chewbacca — Wookiee Warrior
Star Wars: How Not to Get Eaten by Ewoks and Other Galactic Survival Skills
Journey to Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Resistance
Star Wars: The Galactic Explorer's Guide
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Galactic Guide
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
The Art of Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker
Starfighter Aces: Chewbacca — A Willing Rebel
Starfighter Aces: Chewbacca — On the Side of the Resistance
Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge: Traveler's Guide to Batuu
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
The Battle of Hoth and the Second Death Star
The Final Order and the Battle of Exegol
Star Wars: The Clone Wars: Character Encyclopedia - Join the Battle!
"Replacements" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy
Chewbacca and Other Aliens of the Rebellion and the Resistance
Tobias Beckett and Other Characters of the Underworld
Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy
Under the Helmet: The Legacy of Boba Fett
A Series of Firsts | Obi-Wan Kenobi | Disney+
The Story of the Ronin Continues and More from Marvel's September 2022
Comic Hits Shelves, Charles Soule Looks Back
Will Point Toward the Future of the Galaxy Far, Far Away in Comics – Exclusive
Marvel Star Wars: Revelations Reveal, Inspiring ILM Legends, and More!
Caring for Creatures From Across the Galaxy at
Inquisitor Novel Revealed, and More Highlights from the Lucasfilm Publishing Panel
The Eye of the Webbish Bog Summons Vader Once More in Marvel's
Star Wars: The Secrets of the Bounty Hunters
Han and Chewie Look to Pull Off an Impossible Heist in Marvel's
Star Wars Celebration Europe 2023 Announces First Celebrity Guests
Young Jedi Adventures Release Date, Billy Dee Williams Joins Star Wars Celebration Europe, and More!
Celebration Europe 2023 Exclusives from Hasbro, the LEGO Group, and More
SWCE 2023: 11 Highlights from Lucasfilm's Studio Showcase
SWCE 2023: Funko Reveals New Micro-Sized
SWCE 2023: 10 Reveals from the Lucasfilm Publishing Panel
Star Wars Day is Here, Visions Volume 2, and More!
at 40 | From a Certain Point of View: What's the Best Moment in
Celebrating 40 Years of Return of the Jedi
D-Squad Is Back! R2-D2's All-Star Team Returns in New Marvel Miniseries
Announced and Other Reveals from the Hasbro
NYCC 2023: 13 Highlights from the Lucasfilm Publishing Panel
Star Wars: Dawn of Rebellion: The Visual Guide
Star Wars: The High Republic Character Encyclopedia
Everyone Needs a Wookiee Hug on Valentine's Day
"Imperial March" Begins with a Galaxy of New Toys, Apparel, and More
"Bad Territory" Episode Guide | Star Wars: The Bad Batch
Dispatch: Star Wars on Free Comic Book Day
Feast Your Eyes Upon the Galactic Treats Coming to Season of the Force at Disneyland Park - Exclusive
"Revenge / Justice" Episode Guide | The Acolyte
Creature Shop: Meet Bazil, the Tynnan Tracker - First Details
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
's Stunt Sequences and Martial Arts Action
Publishing Program and Other Reveals from the Lucasfilm Panel
25 Things You Probably Didn't Know About the Making of
' Dee Bradley Baker on Creating a Voice for Nubs
Music By John Williams | Official Trailer | Disney+
Reads Picks For Every Type of Reader in Your Life
Star Wars: The High Republic: The Lightsaber Collection
Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy
Skeleton Crew | The Skeleton Crew Talks Star Wars | Streaming December 3 Disney+
Celebrate Life Day | Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge at Disneyland Resort
Celebration Japan Fan Spotlight: Jessie Co's Elaborate and Edible Character Creations
Celebration Japan Show Floor Exclusives - Reveal
Celebration Japan 2025: The Anime & Manga Pavilion Celebrates Collaboration
SWCJ 2025: 14 Reveals From Hasbro's Panel
Celebration Japan 2025: All the News You Need
'Star Wars: The High Republic - The Finale' and More Marvel 'Star Wars' Titles Revealed At Star Wars Celebration
Wookiee Basketball, Kid Han Solo, and a Kenobi Dummy: 20 Fun Facts about
LEGO Star Wars: Rebuild the Galaxy - Pieces of the Past
Never-Before-Seen Art Celebrates 20 Years of Lucasfilm Animation at San Diego Comic-Con 2025
Video Game Should You Play Right Now? - Updated
Video Games There's a Galaxy of Connection
Chewbacca and Other Creature Department Creations from
LEGO Star Wars: Choose Your Side: Doodle Activity Book
LEGO Star Wars: Build Your Own Adventure
LEGO Star Wars Summer Vacation | Official Trailer | Disney+
LEGO Star Wars Summer Vacation: A Vacation Adventure Clip
LEGO Star Wars Character Encyclopedia Updated Edition
LEGO Star Wars: Rebuild the Galaxy: Pieces of the Past
Will Feature LEGO BrickHeadz Ahsoka and… Jaxxon?!
Strap in Starfighter, Star Wars is Taking Over in Fortnite: GALACTIC BATTLE!
A Giant Chewbacca Joins the Fight in New
LEGO Star Wars: Rebuild the Galaxy - Pieces of the Past
Our Favorite Deep Cuts and Fun Facts from
LEGO Star Wars: Rebuild the Galaxy - Pieces of the Past
That's No Moon, It's The LEGO Group's Latest Death Star Set
VISIONS FILMMAKER FOCUS: THE DUEL: PAYBACK
Solo: A Star Wars Story The Official Guide
Star Wars: The Clone Wars: Character Encyclopedia - Join the Battle!
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
A New Hope: The Princess, the Scoundrel, and the Farm Boy
Smuggler's Run: A Han Solo & Chewbacca Adventure
Star Wars Master Models: Millennium Falcon
" takes place between those two episodes according to
, the events of the episode must also take place in 20 BBY.
Star Wars Origami: 11 Amazing Paper Folding Projects from a Galaxy Far, Far Away.... Characters
Solo: A Star Wars Story: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Solo: A Star Wars Story: Tales from Vandor
Choose Your Destiny: A Han & Chewie Adventure
The Mighty Chewbacca in the Forest of Fear!
Star Wars: Geektionary: The Galaxy from A - Z
Scene to Stat: Tempest Force Battle Force
Return of the Jedi: Beware the Power of the Dark Side!
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition
"Flight of the Falcon, Part 5: Grand Theft Falcon" takes place after the events of "
The Crimson Corsair and the Lost Treasure of Count Dooku
. "The Crimson Corsair and the Lost Treasure of Count Dooku" refers to the prologue as taking place 50
prior to the main story. The prologue takes place in between "
. Therefore the prologue takes place in 19
, and the main story takes place around 31 ABY. Therefore, "Flight of the Falcon, Part 5: Grand Theft Falcon" also takes place around 31 ABY.
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: Incredible Cross-Sections
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: A Junior Novel
Empire of Dreams: The Story of the Star Wars Trilogy
Chewbacca actor pulls out of southwest Missouri's Visioncon
): "…Peter Mayhew was called to London to begin filming "Star Wars: Episode VIII"…"
How a 29-year-old basketball player landed a star role as the new Chewbacca in 'Star Wars'
by Guerrasio, Jason on Business Insider (
20 Most Memorable Moments of the Expanded Universe
The Legendary Star Wars Expanded Universe Turns a New Page
TheForce.net - Jedi Council - Interviews - Cellblock 1138 - Dave Filoni and Henry Gilroy
Much to Learn You Still Have: 8 Things You Might Not Know About Wookiees
George Lucas Stole Chewbacca, But It's Okay
Drawing from the Present: Familiar Creatures in a Galaxy Far, Far Away