This article covers an essential topic and is in need of major additions and/or work.
and complete this article to the highest level of quality before removing this notice.
Collective Commerce District (CoCo Town)
Coruscant. The entire planet is one big city.
. Prior to being covered by over five thousand metallic levels of what would become known as
, the theory that Coruscant was the ancestral world of
remained unproven. Noted for its cosmopolitan culture and towering
, Coruscant's population consisted of trillions of
species. In addition, Coruscant's strategic location at the end of several major
enabled it to grow in power and influence, causing the city-planet to surpass its early rivals and become the hub of
and technology. It was the location of several major landmarks, including the
. Their victory was so decisive that at one point the Sith became all but extinct, replacing an
of the modern Galactic Republic. Retaining its status as galactic capital, it was on Coruscant where the
. However, political intrigue wrought by corruption and
transformed Coruscant into a dangerous environment by the time of the
that all but destroyed the Jedi Order. Without the Jedi to oppose him, Palpatine dissolved the Republic and
Coruscant continued to serve as galactic capital under the Empire, having become the Emperor's
, although Palpatine himself disappeared from public view for the most part, leaving the
. The Empire maintained a firm hold on Coruscant throughout the Emperor's
control of the collapsing Imperial government. Hoping to escape prosecution for war crimes, Amedda ultimately surrendered himself to the
in return for amnesty. Following Rax's death at the
—a peace treaty recognizing the Empire's
. Amedda himself was permitted to return to Coruscant as the head of a
. Yet his authority was merely ceremonial; under the supervision of Republic overseers, he became a virtually powerless figurehead.
Unlike previous galactic governments, the
broke with millennia of tradition by not establishing Coruscant as their headquarters, instead preferring to designate other member worlds with the status of galactic capital through an electoral system. During the
, Coruscant had become the capital of the New Republic as it was designed to handle and administer the galaxy's infrastructure. As part of the
, Coruscant enjoyed full senatorial representation and, by the time of the
, was aligned with the worlds that identified as
. However, by this point, Coruscant had actually fallen under the control of crime syndicates. Now a symbol of the disturbing realities of the galaxy's current era, gangs fought a
, at least two sizeable battlegroup were deployed by the
to Coruscant in the apparent hope of seizing it and ruling the galaxy from the ecumenopolis as the Galactic Empire once did, however these efforts were defeated. In the aftermath of the
from their soil. Coruscant was one such world where an
Though Coruscant is often referred to as the 'center of the galaxy,' it's not precisely located at our…
Coruscant was a core worlds planet situated along many important hyperspace lanes
also known as Imperial Center during the
and widely accepted as the origin point of
was situated at the junction between many vital and important
of multiple Galactic Governments, first for the
leading to the planet gaining the coordinates 0, 0, 0 despite not being in the actual
would even attempt to conquer the planet and make it their
, though their efforts would ultimately fail.
Coruscant was a bustling ecumenopolis, a city-covered planet
The Coruscant week lasted five days, with each days with the name of each day relating to Coruscant is some way—
, named after the native Zhell species, and
monks from Coruscant. When the need for a standardized time system between worlds arose in the Galaxy, the
to Coruscant's orbital period and rotational period respectively.
, Coruscant's dense multi-layered planet-spanning
though it was slightly dimmed by the planet's hazy cloud cover, which were part of the planet's
across Imperial City. While Coruscant's artificial climate was largely temperate in nature, parts of the planet occasionally experienced infrequent snowfall,
beneath Imperial City's surface levels, fierce microclimates began to form, forcing the Underworld's many residents to adapt.
Similarly, Inside the Coruscant's tallest skyscrapers, enormous differences of
pressure from top to bottom produced unusual and unpredictable microclimates.
The millennia of urban development on Coruscant left sparse evidence of its pre-ecumenopolis state.
of development destroyed the planet's ancient
housed the top of Coruscant's last remaining mountain peak,
, many people decided to come to the surviving mountain top—as it could be touched on
a dark ring surrounded the peak's base as a result of the countless hands that had touched the rock. Generations of city planners decided to keep the mountain peak. During the
, the surface around the peak was covered in greenery in an attempt to recreate the
that would have been around the Umate's base many millennia earlier. Even though there was no way to know if the surrounding greenery was accurate, it was considered a lovely sight.
A Golan-II defense platform in orbit of Coruscant
were located in a fixed-path orbit around the planet.
were in orbit of Coruscant and other important Imperial Core Worlds for defense.
in a roulette game played on Coruscant evolved through mutations they experienced in the planet's gutters. Some believed the small animals had evolved from a union of
Thousands of layers of buildings and skyscrapers cover the entire planetary surface of Coruscant. Because of this, Coruscant is one of only a handful of city-planets, known as an 'ecumenopolis.'
The urban sprawl that covered the surface of Coruscant was known as Galactic City prior to the Imperial Era.
Coruscant's surface was defined by its urban sprawl, which collectively was called
until it was officially renamed as Imperial City during the
The dense city blocks were built on top of each other, with the lowest being
As a hustling, bustling planet-wide city with an underworld full of dark alleys and an abundance of people, Coruscant provided the ideal conditions for a
to prosper, especially targeting tourists from quieter planets.
Galactic City was divided into sectors named by designated coordinates. Some sectors also had unofficial names; for example,
was the nicknamed of "Sah'c Town" due to the
's ownership of much of the sector. Sectors were further divided into zones, with zones determined by purpose, such as financial, senatorial, or industrial zones.
The Galactic Senate's headquarters was located in the Federal District of Coruscant.
, also called the Senate District, was the center of
activity on the planet, as it was home to both the
. It served as the main district for government buildings and institutions including the
. The Federal District was also the location of the
, a massive residential tower home to the most powerful on Coruscant.
, the Federal District was transformed and heavily fortified, and the
was repurposed as the Imperial Palace. The palace became a part of the "supreme triangle" of structures alongside the
The surface of Coruscant featured towering skyscrapers and streams of speeder-filled air traffic.
via auto-navigation system that moved the speeders along preprogrammed routes. As such crashes were extremely rare.
Precautions were taken though with and skytunnels incorporating bombproof shields and high-level tracking systems, and most structures on Coruscant had defensive shields to protect windows from stray and out-of-control vehicles.
Owing to the planet's prominence in terms of galactic affairs, Galactic City housed numerous governmental offices and inter-galactic headquarters in its winding depths. The central planning strategy offices of the food giant
could be found within the city, along with the droid research institutes funded by
, one of the galaxy's largest financial institutions. The towers were symbols of power and authority, and the largest could hold populations of well over a million.
Coruscant was home to a population of trillions of beings, both humans and aliens, collectively known as Coruscanti.
The planet's residents were known as the
and of the estimated trillions inhabitants of the planet, 68% were believed to be
On Coruscant, wealth increased with altitude. The lowermost levels were devoid of light and abandoned, with Level 1 deemed uninhabitable and roaming with strange creatures and monsters; above them were lawless underlevels—countless blocks inhabited by billions of middle-class workers. The super-towers on Level 5217 remained home to the ultra-wealthy.
Furthering this class divide, citizens who lived in the upper levels were able to breathe air that was filtered and clean, while lower-class inhabitants were forced to breathe the air of toxic fumes from
As such, most visitors to Coruscant chose to bring their own air supply to last the length of their stay.
They say Coruscant used to be like any other planet, with oceans and mountains. But now it's just this, all the way down to Level 0.
Though unconfirmed, Coruscant was believed to be the ancestral homeworld of the human species.
In ancient times, Coruscant was populated by two
Sometime in its distant past, Coruscant was home to a conflict between civilizations that fought for control of the planet. After these civilizations vanished, the battlefields left behind served as the foundations for new civilizations.
Though its connection to the human species was unconfirmed, Coruscant was widely accepted as the human
claimed that, at least to his knowledge, the people of Coruscant did not have grand creation myths.
In time, humans expanded throughout the known galaxy, exploring and colonizing vast regions of space, with Coruscant becoming the galactic center of political and cultural life.
, were once called home by the people of Coruscant. As the planet expanded up, however,
the buildings turned to ancient ruins that were buried. It was believed those low levels were left uninhabitable.
Many different political systems held control over Coruscant during its existence, with these systems ranging from brutal empires and
Coruscant was one of the Galactic Republic's original Core World founders, and outmaneuvered its early rivals to become the economic and cultural engine of civilization as it expanded along newly chartered
. As these early hyperspace lanes became well-established trade routes, increasing numbers of
this would accelerate the construction of new residential levels and sectors for the city-world's booming population even as the growth of its rivals slowed.
Coruscant's effective status as the center of the Republic led to it being awarded the coordinates 0-0-0 on all standard navigation
As the centuries passed, the Galactic City expanded and 5,000
, it almost covered the entire surface of the planet.
The Jedi Temple on Coruscant was built upon an ancient shrine of the Sith.
ousted them, they built their temple over it.
Coruscant, but it was later reclaimed by the Republic
led to the birth of the modern Galactic Republic
Beings from across the galaxy emigrated to Coruscant seeking opportunities on the bustling planet. However, many newcomers were ultimately relegated to low-level positions and subjected to a life of crime and violence. Nonetheless, it was largely accepted that whoever controlled Coruscant controlled the galaxy.
It is requested that this article section
Please improve it in any way that you see fit, and remove this notice once the article section is more complete.
We are a Republic where every voice matters, whether in the Core or on the farthest planet at the edge of the Rim.
Coruscant was the capital of the Galactic Republic and home of the Jedi Order throughout the Republic Era.
Over the millennia representatives gathered in the Galactic Senate for diplomacy and dispute resolutions, creating and enforcing laws, and maintaining peace. As such, Coruscant became known as the galactic capital for thousands of years.
became inebriated and was arrested for disturbing the peace on
. Around the same time, the son of Supreme Chancellor
, Axel, arrived on Level 2623 to visit the
. However, after starting a fight in the gambling den, he was arrested by members of the
, who revealed they had been sent by his mother.
to war against the Jedi and other Force-sensitives, she had dreams of spreading their insurgency as far as Coruscant itself, urging the Path to follow her across the stars. While the Path quickly fell under Ro's sway,
although Ro herself escaped and began a new plan
I will not let this Republic that has stood for a thousand years be split in two. My negotiations will not fail.
If they do, you must realize there aren't enough Jedi to protect the Republic. We are keepers of the peace, not soldiers.
The modern Sith secretly inhabited Coruscant, influencing Republic politics and avoiding detection by the Jedi.
executed his plans for galactic domination, beginning with the
The Sith Order, having survived its near destruction through
, conspired for generations to reclaim their place of dominance in the galaxy.
By Sidious' time, the Sith secretly resided on Coruscant in spite of the Jedi Order's presence on the capital. The Jedi at the time were under the belief that their ancient rivals had been extinct for over a millennium.
The queen of Naboo journeyed to the galactic capital to protest the Trade Federation's invasion of her world.
, to flee to Coruscant seeking Senator Palpatine's counsel. Among the queen's retinue was
, Skywalker was brought to the Jedi Temple by
. Amidala, having learned from Palpatine about the corruption in the Republic government, called for stronger leadership by denouncing Valorum as a head of state. Consequently, Valorum was
During the early years of Palpatine's chancellery, he brought Skywalker to the lower levels of Coruscant, revealing corruption and the Republic's limitations to the young
Perhaps some unexpected bloodshed on Coruscant, uh, may change a few minds.
Coruscant? Coruscant has not been attacked in over 1,000 years.
The formation of the Grand Army of the Republic occurred shortly before the first battle of the Clone Wars.
that began with the establishment of the
escalated into open war between the Republic and the Separatists. In the same year, Amidala became the target of an
. The former queen-turned-senator was saved from the
through the efforts of Kenobi and Skywalker. While Skywalker escorted Amidala to Naboo for her protection, Kenobi
world of Kamino where he discovered that an
and learned that several commercial organizations pledged their resources to
Having learned of the Separatists' plan to attack the Republic, the
. Though the Jedi Order had long stood as the Senate's instrument of peace in the galaxy, the limited number of Jedi Knights prevented them from fighting a galactic-scale conflict on their own.
, acting on behalf of Naboo in Amidala's absence, proposed a motion to grant
to the Supreme Chancellor. The Senate voted in favor of the
politician's request, allowing Chancellor Palpatine to unilaterally create the
The Clone Wars saw the creation of the Coruscant Guard, an elite unit of clone shock troopers.
The Clone Wars became one of the most turbulent times in galactic history
and the first, full scale war in over a thousand years.
As the capital of the Republic, Coruscant, already a hotbed of political intrigue, became a target for both military and political reasons. Situations and events that were unthinkable centuries before became commonplace.
Even prior to the beginning of the war, changes could be seen in the Republic. The Senate, already corrupt and bloated found it difficult to respond, delegating emergency powers to Palpatine. The chancellor himself brought changes such as implementing the use of his personal
Throughout the conflict, Supreme Chancellor Sheev Palpatine directed the Republic war effort from Coruscant.
spread across the galaxy to defend the Republic, the Jedi, long taking the stand of being peacekeepers instead of soldiers, led the clone
. The dramatic changes were noted by the Jedi and the Republic citizens alike,
Unknown to everyone except a select few, Coruscant was from where the entire war was continually manipulated by Palpatine. As Supreme Chancellor, he took overall charge of the Republic military and directed the war effort from his office in the Senate Office Building.
Sidious he directed Dooku's actions designed to continue the war and further his plans.
During the Clone Wars, Chancellor Palpatine had the
transported to Coruscant for scientific research, overruling the objections of his Jedi advisor
. Palpatine ordered the Zillo Beast's destruction, but the creature broke out of the
across Coruscant's Senate district. The clone forces on Coruscant converged on the Zillo Beast, using
to kill it while the Jedi protected the chancellor.
While clone troopers had already started to see open use on Coruscant at that point,
the failure of Senate Guards during the incident became a justification
use of clones on the capital itself. In fact, clones came to replace
as Coruscant-based additional security and fast-action response military forces.
A Separatist terrorist attack disabled power to large sections of Coruscant, including its government district.
by planetside Separatist agents. Consequently, the Senate voted to
, allowing the Republic to take on additional loans for the purpose of purchasing more clones for its army. Unbeknown to the Senate, the attack was supported by Senators
and the Trade Federation, profited from the Clone Wars.
During the late Clone Wars, the Jedi Temple was bombed in a terrorist attack.
Public opinion towards the end of the war, as represented by the citizens of Coruscant, began to turn against the Jedi. Protesters would gather in front of the Temple, blaming the Jedi for the military losses and the Jedi's loss of perspective as keepers of the peace. It was at that time that an
occurred at the Jedi Temple docking complex that killed six Jedi and several clone troopers and Temple employees. The investigation by
and Jedi Anakin Skywalker and Ahsoka Tano found that
which then exploded, killing Bowmani and causing the bombing at the Temple. Turmond was arrested and held at the Republic Center for Military Operations.
Tano was subsequently framed for the death of Turmond, who was
to the lower levels of Coruscant, becoming a hunted fugitive while seeking to prove her innocence.
against the Galactic Republic. However, the charges against her were dropped when the rogue Jedi
confessed to the crimes that Tano had been accused of.
Tano left the Jedi Temple after deciding to not rejoin the Jedi Order.
In the name of the Galactic Senate of the Republic, you're under arrest, Chancellor.
The Battle of Coruscant erupted at the height of the Clone Wars, with Republic forces engaging the Separatists in the planet's stratosphere.
Throughout the Clone Wars, Palpatine had remained a popular leader, remaining in office at the will of the Senate for far longer than his term technically allowed.
During this period, Palpatine continued to consolidate and centralize his own power.
Coruscant's defenses were spread thin. The Separatists had been pushed back to the
, and could not risk a direct strike at the heart of the Republic. Coruscanti citizens, used to having the war fought far from the capitol, were just as surprised as the
when a Separatist assault force launched a surprise attack on the planet.
, Chancellor Palpatine was captured and taken to the Separatist
, where he was rescued by the Jedi Knights Anakin Skywalker and
After the death of Count Dooku, the Jedi on Coruscant focused their efforts on locating General
Supreme Martial Commander of the Separatist Droid Armies
and the Supreme Chancellor. Suspicious of the chancellor's motives, the High
on Palpatine after he had made the young Jedi Knight the
's representative on the Council. During the final days of the Clone Wars,
. Shortly afterward, the High Council dispatched Kenobi and his
, the planet where Grievous had been located by
With Anakin Skywalker's help, Darth Sidious killed Mace Windu on Coruscant.
With the Clone Wars nearing its conclusion, Chancellor Palpatine revealed his secret identity as the
to Skywalker. Acting on Skywalker's report, Jedi Masters Mace Windu,
resulted in the deaths of Kolar, Tiin, and Fisto; although Sidious was disarmed by Windu, he succeeded in killing the Jedi Order's champion due to the interference of Skywalker, who believed the chancellor's claims of possessing the power to save others from death. As a consequence, Skywalker renounced the Jedi and assumed the mantle of a Sith as Darth Vader.
So this is how liberty dies… with thunderous applause.
The birth of the Galactic Empire was announced on Coruscant by Darth Sidious at the end of the Clone Wars.
to the entire Grand Army of the Republic,
to force the clone troopers into killing their
, declaring a new era of order and security under the first Galactic Empire. The Separatist attack on Coruscant had exposed the capital's vulnerability,
which, combined with Sidious' allegation of a "Jedi rebellion," compelled the Senate to support the
Yoda and Kenobi returned to Coruscant in the aftermath of Order 66. After learning of Skywalker's turn to the
, the two Jedi Masters resolved to destroy the Sith. Kenobi left Coruscant to find his fallen apprentice, whereas Yoda remained on the capital to confront the Emperor. However, Yoda
The Empire sat at the center of the galaxy like an enormous black hole—forever sucking wealth and resources inward. Coruscant glittered while those at the edges suffered.
The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
-class Star Destroyers orbited Coruscant during its early days as the Imperial capital.
After Palpatine's accession to power, changes came quickly to Coruscant, formally renamed as Imperial Center, and the Galactic City to Imperial City.
The Jedi Temple and its surrounding serene complex became the home of the new Emperor. While the spires of the Temple remained in place, the rest of the structure was heavily remodeled and expanded with sloping facades and block-shaped additions. The entire area was known as the Federal District, with the Imperial Palace forming one point of the so-called supreme triangle.
As the Empire established itself in the greater galaxy, wealth and resources from across the stars were claimed and redirected towards the Core Worlds, particularly Coruscant, at great expense to those who were subjugated in order to secure that wealth.
The other two points on Coruscant were the byzantine COMPNOR arcology, which contained the headquarters of the Imperial Security Bureau, and the new Naval Intelligence Agency headquarters, a near-windowless complex which formerly housed the Republic's strategic center. The cityscape of Coruscant changed as well. Buildings were stripped of their elegant Republic dressings in favor of sleek lines and block-like surfaces, and many smaller buildings became engulfed into larger buildings. Some areas changed so quickly that they were not recognizable to those who had seen them only a few years before.
"Coruscant's changed a lot over the last few years. These days, just being outside's asking for trouble.
Jedi Knight Cal Kestis faced Imperial forces on Coruscant.
However, the Empire's policies against non-humans and its tightening control of the population caused unrest, especially among the alien populations of the underworld.
The Empire's way of acting caused the movement in the streets to decrease, as the planet's population tried to avoid the Imperial authorities to avoid problems, as seen on specific on
The wealthy, however, moved around with much less stress.
Indeed, Coruscanti on other levels than 2046 also moved about with impunity,
with such Coruscanti—even if they were not wealthy—eager to enjoy the benefits of life on Coruscant.
, where they worked to keep even the Empire away.
, stole Imperial military information from Imperial Senator
on Coruscant. A large part of Kestis' team died in the
, in addition to Sejan, who was killed by the
for supposed betrayal. The Ninth Sister was also killed when Kestis decapitated her. The acquired information was handed over to the
population on Coruscant. The aggressiveness of the forced relocations caused
, which was brutally put down by Imperial forces.
The Coruscant Security Force suppressed rioters on Level 3204 in the wake of Alderaan's destruction.
, rumors of what occurred began reaching the
population on Coruscant, most of whom lived on
. Vigils soon became heated and angry when it became known that the Empire had destroyed the planet. For several days, rioting continued until the combined efforts of the
restored order by firing indiscriminately into the crowds. The crowds, frightened, quickly dispersed. The following day, the Coruscant police arrested anyone caught out in the streets. The day after that, stormtroopers began going door to door stating that
had recruited local residents and that Alderaanians had to be taken in for questioning.
It is a symbol of our indolence and torpidity. It is the moldering core of our overripe fruit and I wish to cut away such rot so as to preserve our sweet remains and of course the seeds within.
The death of Emperor Palpatine was celebrated by the citizens of Coruscant, who rebelled against Imperial rule.
the Rebel Alliance managed to defeat the Empire in the penultimate
. With both the Emperor and his apprentice dead, due to being killed during the destruction of the
DS-2 Death Star II Mobile Battle Station
, pulling down statues of Palpatine, overwhelming the stormtroopers on the streets, and setting off chimes and fireworks.
Police forces on speeders quickly entered the plaza and opened fire on the crowds without warning, killing many who were present. Present Coruscanti erupted into full-scale rioting. Blaster fire and fighting soon erupted across the capital between Coruscanti and the Imperial security forces.
Grand Vizier Mas Amedda struggled to maintain control over Coruscant as the Empire crumbled around him.
Meanwhile, Coruscant dissolved into a true state of
, with some sectors entrenching themselves with Rebel resistance fighters, while other sectors actively fought against their neighbors and supported the Imperial forces. As the Empire fractured all over the galaxy,
took control of Imperial forces on Coruscant
However, the Imperial Navy withdrew support from the
, the figurehead of the Navy, to send reinforcements to the planet. Rax, leader of the
that secretly guided the Empire in its final days, saw the planet as representing the "decay" that caused the Empire's downfall.
In this vacuum, the Imperial Security Bureau was left to coordinate Coruscant's Imperial forces. Grand Vizier Mas Amedda remained the planet's administrator and de-facto head of the Empire, but held no real power. The ISB established a nominal blockade around the planet utilizing ISB spaceships and coordinated the efforts of present security forces and stormtroopers. The Verity and Federal District were heavily fortified with checkpoints and barricades. Coruscant skylanes were diverted, and ISB crafts flew on patrol. Smoke rose from damaged vehicles and buildings as a fierce guerrilla war consumed the entire planet. Amedda, in despair and desperation, sought to turn himself over to New Republic
. However, they refused to take him prisoner, instead insisting that he find a way to capitulate the Empire and sign a full surrender.
Mas Amedda has come out of hiding and wants to sign a cease-fire. He wants to end it. All of it.
After the Empire's capitulation, Coruscant's provisional government was established with Amedda as its figurehead.
, Grand Vizier Mas Amedda was kept under house arrest by
Rax at the Imperial Palace. There, he was forced to make
broadcasts and was treated like a virtual captive. Later, he was rescued by members of a child resistance group known as the
, who had initially come to assassinate him. Amedda managed to persuade the child resistance fighters to help him escape so that he could end the Galactic Civil War. After emerging from hiding, Amedda contacted Chancellor Mothma to surrender. Following the signing of the
on Chandrila, the Empire surrendered to the New Republic
and ceded Coruscant over to the fledgling galactic government
with Mas Amedda being permitted to form a
on Coruscant, along with Republic observers to ensure that it remained powerless under a figurehead leader. Following the Imperial surrender, weeks of celebrations took place in the streets and rooftops of Coruscant as the population celebrated the end of Imperial rule on the planet.
The capital of the Old Republic was within the Core on a planet called Coruscant. The capital of the New Republic is currently on the planet Chandrila, which is also within the Core region.
While no longer the focal point of legislative power, Coruscant continued to retain operations for governmental functions.
With the Galactic Civil War concluded, the New Republic sought to reshape galactic politics in an effort to both prevent the abuses of the Old Republic and bring in disaffected worlds that had seceded from the Republic prior to the Clone Wars. To accomplish this, the restored Galactic Senate decided that all worlds would have an equal say in their government, and as such all worlds had an equal chance of hosting the legislative branch on a rotating basis, rather than simply remaining on Coruscant alone.
The New Republic would eventually move some government operations back to Coruscant as the planet was already designed to handle and administer the galaxy's infrastructure,
transforming Coruscant into a key administrative hub
after Chandrila had taken on the capital title for a time,
Coruscant was named the New Republic's capital.
All the while, Coruscant remained a populous world, home to a trillion permanent residents, and was still referred to as "the center of the galaxy" during the New Republic Era. The
maintained a presence on Coruscant, providing security and structure, while overseeing the decommission of
Some Coruscanti, however, displayed a gleeful disregard for whatever politics shaped the galaxy and happily supported whatever government was in charge, displaying a lack of care for what it entailed beyond Coruscant.
The New Republic Amnesty Program assigned former Imperials to Coruscant where they could serve the new government.
After the Galactic Empire's defeat, captured Imperials were granted the chance to join the New Republic. As a result, programs like the
were created to facilitate a former Imperial's assimilation into the new regime. The Amnesty Program consisted of former
who, after spending time in the Re-Integration Institute, received accommodations in
where Imperial technology was archived and destroyed.
having left the program's designated perimeter to acquire equipment in the hope of continuing his cloning research, despite its prohibition by the
There is no proof of any coordination between the scattered and dwindling number of Imperial forces.
Exactly my point. Gideon was a warlord acting on his own.
was summoned to Coruscant where the New Republic
would decided whether or not to permanently suspend her command due to her disobeying orders.
Have you no faith in the soldiers of the New Republic, Senator Sindian? Senator Organa will travel with an entire squadron of guards to protect her at all times. Do not doubt their ability or their valor!
After joining the New Republic, Coruscant was counted among the Centrist worlds that advocated for a stronger galactic government.
Coruscant become part of a political coalition known as the
. The faction that Coruscant was associated with lobbied for centralized rule akin to the system that defined the Old Empire. Their views were diametrically opposed to that of the
who sought to limit the galactic government's involvement in the affairs of its constituent worlds.
, Coruscant was represented in the New Republic Senate by
had been designated as the capital of the New Republic. Senator Arbo was a known Centrist, war hawk, and supporter of the New Republic Defense Force.
After the Senate's failed attempt to elect a
, the Centrists seceded from the New Republic and formed the political branch of the
Coruscant's descent into lawlessness is one of the greatest tragedies of our age. What a rich history!
Lawlessness and gang warfare became commonplace on Coruscant, a fate lamented by Hondo Ohnaka.
Despite being a part of the New Republic,
the planet actually fell under the control of criminal syndicates after the Empire's fall. By the time following the
even the respectable areas of Coruscant were roamed by gangs. Gangs fought a
for control of the glittering world's districts. Tourism to the once-galactic capital all but vanished, and, for an individual to be safe, they needed to afford protection like droids and armed guards. Accordingly, the city world was not a symbol of galactic possibilities. Instead, it represented the disturbing realities of the galaxy's current time period.
, who was saddened by Coruscant's current state, included the planet in his book titled
described Coruscant's fall from grace into lawlessness as one of the greatest tragedies of their current era.
It seems that at least two sizeable battlegroups made a push for Coruscant in the apparent hope of seizing it and ruling the galaxy from the Empire's seat of power. It appears that the forces sent to achieve that were defeated, but there is still a good deal of confusion regarding recent events at the end of the war.
The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
After destroying the New Republic, the First Order attempted to seize direct control over the former Imperial capital of Coruscant.
, Coruscant along with the the Inner systems mounted a valiant and successful effort to repel the First Order's forces twice.
at least two sizeable battlegroups made a push for Coruscant in the apparent hope of seizing it and ruling the galaxy from Coruscant due to it once being the seat of power for the Empire but these efforts were defeated. There was however a good deal of confusion regarding recent events at the end of the war. The Resistance also had planned an operation on Coruscant.
which saw the First Order ultimately defeated.
There are people from a thousand worlds on Coruscant. Worlds that have faced similar struggles. You may see it as a city of metal, but there is wisdom to be found here. And allies.
Coruscant was home to a cosmopolitan society as diverse as the galaxy that it once ruled.
Although Coruscant was believed to be the homeworld of the human species,
the Coruscanti were as varied as the galaxy itself, especially as one journeyed below the surface of the skyscrapers and into the underworld.
Trillions of beings resided on the planet,
and humans made up 68% percent of the population.
According to Qui-Gon Jinn, there were people from a thousand worlds living on Coruscant.
, disdained Coruscant's planet-wide urban sprawl as an "abomination." Nevertheless, Jinn encouraged Th'er to take advantage of its diverse population, noting that there were many individuals on Coruscant whose worlds faced adversities similar to that of Bri'n.
Republic politicians resided in the more affluent upper levels of Coruscant.
As the center of galactic power, senators and delegates of every represented planet had a residence on Coruscant. From there they would spend their days either working in the Senate or hosting events such as parties and political meetings.
Additionally, the planet served as the home of large communities of various species, some who rarely returned to their original homeworld. Many of those communities of species that were not human resided in the lower levels of the city. With the formation of the Empire, even the humans whose home planet had fallen out of favor with the Imperial government, such as Alderaan, were forced into enclaves in the underworld.
On the surface levels of Coruscant, skyscrapers served as homes and businesses for the wealthy, powerful, and politically connected. They were ferried by private speeder or an
from one tower to the next or to the various theaters, clubs, operas, and other entertainment areas of Coruscant.
Some journeyed to the surface street levels or Coruscant's surface parks to conduct clandestine meetings
or to mingle in the crowds of people that streamed through the walkways of the residential and commercial areas. Among the rich and powerful of the planet were the Supreme Chancellor of the Republic and members of the Galactic Senate.
The last generation of Republic citizens were more interested in leisure activities than galactic politics.
The influential and wealthy of Coruscant thrived in lavish lifestyles, attending meetings and social gatherings in highrise apartments,
dining in fine restaurants overlooking the city,
partying in the entertainment districts,
and viewing large scale shows in theaters and operas.
Even as the Republic decayed, the Clone Wars raged on, and the average citizen became disenfranchised,
Coruscant's wealthy continued their lifestyle.
believed that this generation's lack of focus on galactic politics contributed to the decline and fall of the Republic.
On the streets of the city and in the shadows of skyscrapers teemed the planet's blue collar working population.
Many lived in the various housing blocks of the surface structures in relative comfort though not nearly as extravagant as the planet's wealthy and powerful. Many worked on the upper and lower surface levels or enjoyed the entertainment and restaurants that were more catered to their financial abilities.
The inhabitants of Coruscant's lower levels lived in impoverished conditions.
Below the housing blocks and surface levels was the population inhabiting the Coruscant underworld. A term used to describe both the thousands of levels underneath the surface, and, Coruscant's criminal population, the underworld was home to millions of the planet's population who were too poor to move upward or were hiding from the attentions of the authorities. The citizens who lived here rarely if ever during their lifetime saw the surface of the planet. Living between vast buildings and infrastructure that supported the surface, they carried on their lives at the mercy of the violence, decay, and constant threat of death.
hailed from the lower levels and eventually gained enough skill to be recognized as a
, yet Glikkin vowed to never forget his roots in Coruscant's underworld.
You see that? Out there are the little people you're representing so proudly. You know what they're going to do if you ever get in trouble or need help?
Absolutely nothing. You'll be as forgotten as yesterday's breakfast. I'm the one you want to impress, Ms. Pryce. Men and women like me. Not Daisie what's-her-name out there. We're the ones with the power to make or break you. You'd be well advised to remember that.
Coruscant was the seat of the Galactic Senate, making it home to thousands of senators from across the galaxy.
Coruscant, as the center of the galaxy, thrived on the rule of government. It served as the capital of the Republic which kept the peace and prevented a major war in the galaxy for over a thousand years. Under the Republic, the Chancellor and the Senate had a direct influence on the planet's governance. Major events that affected the Republic equally affected Coruscant.
In its last years, the Republic's Senate became corrupt, bloated, and ultimately ineffectual, though some continued to fight in the belief of its ability to govern.
With the formation of the Empire, the Senate transitioned into a limited role, providing council and legislation but ultimately at the power of the Emperor.
As Coruscant's government services were strained, the Imperial Senate moved to have each senator open citizen assistance offices that would supplement the work of the local government. While the goal was to primarily assist the members of each senator's homeworld living on Coruscant, the assistance offices were open to help all Coruscanti.
After the Republic fell, Coruscant retained its status as the seat of galactic power under the Emperor's reign.
At the height of his power, Palpatine disbanded the Senate altogether and gave what little power they had left to the regional
At the end of the Galactic Civil War, the New Republic installed a provisional government over Coruscant led by the former Imperial Grand Vizier Mas Amedda.
However, the New Republic did not establish its government on Coruscant, choosing instead to rotate the capital among the various member worlds.
Under the New Republic, Coruscant was represented by a senator and junior senator,
but the planet had come under the control of crime syndicates.
Epidemic outbreaks at the starports of Coruscant were controlled by the
Coruscant was policed by the Coruscant Security Force, which utilized police droids on the upper levels together with sentient officers and detectives,
and the burly underworld police who patrolled in the cutthroat environment of the lower levels.
handled the flow of immigration to and from the planet,
The Senate Guards were stationed on Coruscant due to their role in government security.
The Senate had its own protectors, the Senate Guard. Serving under a long tradition, the Senate Guard was a reminder that though the Republic did not have a standing army, it was not defenseless.
As the Clone Wars erupted, the clone troopers of the Coruscant Guard worked as peacekeepers and military police, providing a constant reminder of the expanded power of the government, specifically Palpatine.
With the formation of the Empire, the Coruscant Guard and Imperial stormtroopers took over the functions of the Senate Guard,
with stormtroopers directly responsible for security on the planet, alongside the civilian Coruscant police.
They care. We did more than that. We passed messages. Told them about troop movements. We gave them intel, Iggs. How else do you think the rebels retook Coco-Town? That was us.
One of Coruscant's many sectors was a dilapidated industrial area known as CoCo Town.
was a dilapidated industrial area of Coruscant. Home to mostly hard-working laborers, CoCo Town was located on a surface area of the city.
The area, however, was not as run down as other heavy industrial surface districts and contained relatively well-maintained streets, speeder lanes, and a shuttle bus route.
On one of the main streets built on top of the urban blocks was an eatery called Dex's Diner. Owned and operated by Dexter Jettster, a
with a colorful background, it served mostly hard workers from the area. The diner offered home-style cooked meals and freshly brewed
. Jettster worked as the cook and employed two waitresses,
Shortly before the Clone Wars, Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi came to Dex's Diner to see if his old friend Jettster could identify a poisoned dart. Jettster identified it as originating from the planet Kamino, which he knew of from his days as a prospector.
During the civil war that erupted after the Emperor's death, CoCo Town became an epicenter of the fight between rebel and Imperial forces. The fighting saw the formation of the so-called Anklebiter Brigade, a group of youths familiar with the underground maintenance systems, who would use them to sneak behind Imperial lines and disrupt their abilities to fight.
The ISB Central Office towered over the COMPNOR complex.
The COMPNOR arcology was a huge, labyrinthine building in the Imperial City's Federal District
, housing several Imperial government agencies including the
Commission for the Preservation of the New Order
was directly connected with it. The importance of the complex led to it being considered one of the three points of the District's "supreme triangle", alongside the Imperial Palace and Navy Intelligence Headquarters.
The Grand Medical Facility is state-of-the-art.
The Grand Republic Medical Facility was a Republic Military treatment center, yet also a secret lair of the Sith.
The Grand Republic Medical Facility was a tower built to serve as a treatment center for badly injured Republic soldiers. The building was heavily guarded and had defensive shields, an independent power supply and was armored to where it could withstand a siege. The facility provided treatment to patients from all over the galaxy and boasted cutting-edge techniques in surgery and biomechanical reconstruction. The heavy fortifications and benign front appealed to Palpatine, and towards the end of the Clone Wars, he began using the lower levels of the facility to store Sith artifacts and as a meditation area, access to which was prevented by the Red Guards.
"Fives" to the Grand Republic Medical Facility as part of their investigation into the actions of
the clone trooper who prematurely executed Order 66.
Chancellor Palpatine confronted Fives in the facility, revealing his true nature. Fives fought back against the Red Guards and escaped the facility, though he was eventually located and killed by the Coruscant Guard.
After ending Fives' threat to Palpatine's plans, the Medical Facility was temporarily closed, and Palpatine used the opportunity to move several larger secret
into the tower from a building in the Works. However, the medical capabilities remained operational and were used to build the life-sustaining suit for Darth Vader after his fateful duel with Obi-Wan Kenobi. The Sith artifacts inside the building fueled Vader's recovery and hate.
The Chancellor has been moved to his Senate quarters, and the perimeter has been secured.
The Chancellor's office was located in the Senate Office Building on Coruscant.
Directly adjacent to the Senate Building was the Senate Office Building. The executive building had docking bays that wrapped around the building, allowing Senators to land their private shuttles and walk inside. The building contained mostly offices and meeting rooms for members of the Senate but also held the offices used on a day-to-day basis by the Supreme Chancellor. During Palpatine's term, the Chancellor's office was decorated with red floors and walls as well as several statues. A lobby led to the Chancellor's public office, which contained a grand desk and large window that overlooked the cityscape. To the side, another hallway led to Palpatine's inner private office.
The Senate Office Building became known as the Imperial Executive Building after the Republic's reorganization into the Galactic Empire.
This is a secure facility. We do not have just anyone running about.
The Imperial Inspectorate HQ was originally the Republic Center for Military Operations.
The Imperial Inspectorate HQ served as the
The facility was originally a Republic military base; constructed in close proximity to the staging areas for
, the Republic Center for Military Operations was designed by
Outside of the complex was an airfield with
was located in front of the base's main entrance.
The base was protected by shock troopers of the Coruscant Guard. Inside was a military prison, the cells had two options for entering. The first was sliding a keycard. The second was pressing a button on the outside of each cell. The cells had ray-shielded doors to make sure prisoners did not escape. Inside each cell was a bed and bowls for water and food. Another area in the prison was a medium circular room with a fairly large computer for scanning people before they entered the base, a crate for weapons and communication devices, and a red button to start the red-alert sequence.
In the latter half of the war, the prison held
. It was also here that Ahsoka Tano escaped when she was suspected of killing Letta Turmond.
Additionally, inside the compound was a military tribunal courtroom, in which the court decided the fate of dangerous criminals. It was a tall room, with platforms extending into its center for the accused, prosecution, and defense. There was seating along its walls for the presiding official, jury, and other trial participants and onlookers.
The most famous of the Jedi temples, located on Coruscant, served as the home of the Jedi High Council and the vast library of data known as the Jedi Archives. When the Empire took control of the galaxy, the Temple on Coruscant became their new Imperial Palace.
The Jedi Temple was part school, part monastery, and the home of the Jedi Order on Coruscant.
As the galactic capital, Coruscant was also home to the Jedi Order, guardians of peace and justice in the galaxy. An order of Force-sensitives, the Jedi Knights served the Republic for thousands of years as keepers of the peace. Their home was the Jedi Temple. Built on a plain of low lying urban blocks, the Jedi Temple was easily recognizable on the Coruscant cityscape with its distinctive five spires. Part school and part monastery, the Temple was the hub of all Jedi activity throughout the galaxy.
In one of the spires sat the Jedi High Council, led by the Grand Master of the Order, which directed the actions of the Jedi and served as advisers to the Senate and Chancellor.
The Temple held a large lobby and chambers with statues of famous Jedi
and also contained numerous facilities including hanger bays for starships and speeders utilized by the Jedi,
sleeping and living quarters, rooms for meetings and instruction,
and communications and security stations.
, which stored the largest collection of information on the galaxy
as well as a vault containing the valuable
containing the Order's Force knowledge and secrets.
The Jedi Temple fell in the first hours of Order 66, the directive that initiated the Great Jedi Purge.
During the Clone Wars, the Jedi, serving as generals and commanders of the Grand Army, coordinated their efforts from the Temple. However, as the war began to conclude, the Jedi became more separated from the hierarchy of the military command and establishment.
When Palpatine was revealed as the Sith Lord the Jedi had been searching for, he ordered the execution of Order 66 and sent his new apprentice Darth Vader to the Jedi Temple. Entering with the 501st Legion, Vader and the clone troopers seized the Temple, killing all the Jedi and younglings inside and setting the monastery ablaze. Later, Masters Yoda and Kenobi infiltrated the Temple to discover what had occurred. It was there they reconfigured a distress signal transmitting from the Temple to any surviving Jedi asking them to return (into a Sith trap), and learned the truth of Skywalker's fall and Palpatine's identity as the Dark Lord of the Sith.
After the Clone Wars, the Emperor had the Jedi Temple converted into the Imperial Palace.
After the war, Palpatine turned the Temple into the Imperial Palace, using it as his new home. The Temple's spires remained intact though the rest of the Temple was heavily remodeled and expanded. The hallways were stripped of all statues and Republic-era ornaments. Where they had once been quiet and solemn, they became filled with busy government workers and functionaries. A large landing courtyard allowed for shuttles and starships to land. The entire Palace complex was watched over by the red-robed Imperial Royal Guard. The center spire was converted into the Emperor's throne room with a ten-meter tall podium in the center accessible by the Emperor from his residence via a private turbolift.
The structure remained standing on Coruscant throughout the Emperor's reign.
There is no civility, only politics. The Republic is not what it once was. The Senate is full of greedy, squabbling delegates. There is no interest in the common good.
The Galactic Senate Building was the political heart of the galaxy during the age of the Galactic Republic.
The Senate Building was located within the heart of the dense Federal District. Delegates would meet here during sessions of congress to discuss legislation and galactic policy. The structure's recognizable dome was two kilometers in diameter; the
Each senatorial delegation had their own hover platform, which they could detach from the walls of the chamber. They could then float it throughout the cavernous hall to be recognized by the Senate chair or to debate the issue at hand. In the center of the Senate chamber was the Chancellor's podium. Seated in it would be the Supreme Chancellor and the Senate's Vice Chair, who would lead sessions of congress.
The podium could be lowered to an office used by the Chancellor below the chamber.
What about Coruscant? Is there unrest here?
You must be joking. Go down two thousand levels and you'll find all the unrest you could ever want. Go down four thousand and you might as well be in Wild Space.
An underworld of crime, poverty, and darkness existed beneath the upper levels of Coruscant.
Beneath the top-level structures, streets and glistening lights of the city surface was Coruscant's underworld. Its underworld was known for its crime and smugglers. It was accessible by huge portals that additionally served as ventilation shafts. The underworld was a massive city beneath a city with hundreds of
built on top of each other. On each level, dwellings and smaller buildings were squeezed in between massive towers and infrastructure that serviced the upper levels. The streets and alleyways were narrow and large sections contained massive buildings and warehouses, largely abandoned. Sunlight almost never reached the lower levels, which had to be artificially lit.
The population was able to move from one area to another via
that ran below and above the planet's surface. While airspeeders were used, they were a less common sight than on the surface levels. The underworld, containing a vast population of the poor and criminal, was dark and violent. Those who wanted to disappear to hide from the authorities or to conduct illegal transactions could blend in despite the presence of cam droids and other monitoring technology.
Patrolled by the underworld police division of the Coruscant Security Force, the underworld was where large populations of species not loyal to the Emperor were relocated to after the formation of the Empire. Uprisings and riots became common, with stormtroopers frequently called in to assist the Coruscant cops in putting down any dissent with
Level 2046 was one of thousands of levels that made up the ecumenopolis of Coruscant.
Level 2046 was a middle level in the city. Home to a thriving community of sellers and industrialists, the sector housed dozens of shops and even a meat packing plant. Yet, there was also many impoverished citizens and desperate people who lived on this level. By the Imperial Era, the economy of the area had started to decline, even with the Empire's ruthless crackdown on crime. The increased oppression and protection racketeering from troopers hurt many of the businesses there, and corrupt politicians, such as Senator Daho Sejan, would use the level as a way of increasing the financial power. This level also featured at least one
, a common food chain of popular fast food stores that were located in the Coruscant Underworld. Eating there was considered a must for travelers to the planet. Many stormtroopers frequented the locations for their famous dishes.
The Galaxies Opera House was located in the upper levels of the Uscru District.
Coruscant's entertainment districts catered to everyone from the wealthy and powerful to the secretive and criminal. The upper sections of the Uscru District reached to upper levels of the city where the
was located. It was here that Chancellor Palpatine often would come to enjoy various performances. He also met Anakin Skywalker and told him the story of
to subvert Skywalker's faith in the Jedi.
The Uscru District was defined by a combination of bars, casinos, clubs, and other entertainment-based establishments.
Further down in the lower levels of the Uscru Entertainment District was a variety of establishments, most notably the
. The club was situated in a less developed area of the district and did not garner as much attention from the police, a fact that worked in the club's favor. Its labyrinth of bars, gambling rooms and sleeping quarters allowed for a wide variety of visitors and entertainment. In the center was a large bar, usually crowded, that catered to all parts of Coruscant's society.
Jedi Knights Kenobi and Skywalker pursued bounty hunter
into the Uscru District after her attempted assassination of Senator Amidala. The pursuit ended in the Outlander Club, where the Jedi located the assassin. However, Wesell was killed by bounty hunter Jango Fett in an alley outside the club before the Jedi could finish questioning her.
Where am I? I don't understand. Tell me you must!
A rogue shuttle slipped through the security grid. We suspect Dooku was aboard.
Coruscant's industrial zone, known as The Works, was once a manufacturing powerhouse known throughout the galaxy.
was once a great manufacturing district, recognized as a major source of production for
, and building materials. However, centuries prior to the Clone Wars, increasingly high cost on Coruscant prompted most manufacturers to shift their operations to off-planet facilities. Afterwards, the Works mainly consisted of long-abandoned buildings and empty warehouses, many of which were appropriated by criminals, with large areas rendered uninhabitable by toxic waste. Because of this, a derelict hangar in the neglected industrial zone was the site of clandestine meetings between Darth Sidious and Darth Tyranus during the Clone Wars.
and Revised Rough Draft of the script for
, the Imperial capital planet was set to appear under the name
officially adopted the name Coruscant for the planet, a name that was created by
, which showed scenes on Coruscant of the
showed Coruscant as a major center of activity and action. In
the planet is briefly revisited via the dreams of
, featuring her childhood on Coruscant with her father,
. Coruscant was a location in early versions of
script and in the early concept stages for what became
; For the latter, it eventually evolved into
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
Star Wars Insider: The High Republic: Tales of Enlightenment
The High Republic: Quest for the Hidden City
The High Republic Adventures: Quest of the Jedi
Tales of Enlightenment: No Such Thing as a Bad Customer
Star Wars Insider: The High Republic: Tales of Enlightenment
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures: Galactic Training
The High Republic: Race to Crashpoint Tower
The High Republic – Shadows of Starlight
The High Republic – Shadows of Starlight
The High Republic – Shadows of Starlight
The High Republic – Shadows of Starlight
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
The High Republic: The Edge of Balance: Precedent
The High Republic Adventures – The Nameless Terror
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
The High Republic Adventures: Crash Landing
Tales from the Occlusion Zone: No Big Deal
The High Republic: Temptation of the Force
The High Republic: Tears of the Nameless
The High Republic Adventures – Echoes of Fear
The High Republic Adventures – Echoes of Fear
The High Republic Adventures – Echoes of Fear
The High Republic Adventures – Echoes of Fear
The High Republic Adventures – Saber for Hire
The High Republic Adventures – Saber for Hire
The High Republic Adventures Phase III Annual
The High Republic Adventures Phase III Annual
The High Republic Adventures – Dispatches from the Occlusion Zone
Tales from a Galaxy Far, Far Away: Aliens: Volume I
Choose Your Destiny: An Obi-Wan & Anakin Adventure
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
Hyperspace Stories: The Bad Batch—Ghost Agents
Hyperspace Stories: The Bad Batch—Ghost Agents
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
Forces of Destiny: Daring Adventures: Volume 1
Forces of Destiny: Daring Adventures: Volume 2
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
Solo: A Star Wars Story: Expanded Edition
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
Exclusive: Mas Amedda receives Governor Arihnda Pryce for Lothal report
Servants of the Empire: Rebel in the Ranks
Servants of the Empire: Imperial Justice
Servants of the Empire: The Secret Academy
The Mighty Chewbacca in the Forest of Fear!
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
A New Hope: The Princess, the Scoundrel, and the Farm Boy
Smuggler's Run: A Han Solo & Chewbacca Adventure
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Moving Target: A Princess Leia Adventure
Return of the Jedi: Beware the Power of the Dark Side!
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Luke vs. Emperor Palpatine - Rise to Evil
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Star Wars Adventures: Shadow of Vader's Castle
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
Victory's Price: An Alphabet Squadron Novel
Chapter 6: From the Desert Comes a Stranger
Very Interesting, As an Astrogation Problem
The Crimson Corsair and the Lost Treasure of Count Dooku
Tales from a Galaxy Far, Far Away: Aliens: Volume I
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
This Appearances list is incomplete. You can help Wookieepedia by
"Rising Malevolence" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Cloak of Darkness" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Dooku Captured" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"The Gungan General" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Trespass" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Hostage Crisis" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Holocron Heist" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Children of the Force" Episode Guide - The Clone Wars
"Senate Spy" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
Helmets: Darth Vader, Master of the Dark Side
Databank A-Z: Jar Jar Binks–B'omarr Order
Highlights of the Saga: Kidnap of the Chancellor
Highlights of the Saga: Intrigue on Utapau
Highlights of the Saga: Birth of an Empire
Weapons & Uniforms: Imperial Dignitaries
Highlights of the Saga: The Secret of Kamino
Highlights of the Saga: Palpatine Unmasked
Highlights of the Saga: The Fall of the Jedi
Weapons & Uniforms: Citizens of Coruscant
Highlights of the Saga: The Boonta Eve Classic
Weapons & Uniforms: Sebulba and Rival Pilots
Databank A-Z: Saw Gerrera–Commander Gree
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle of Naboo
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle of Geonosis
Weapons & Uniforms: The Supreme Chancellor of the Galactic Republic
Highlights of the Saga: Duel to the Death
Highlights of the Saga: Anakin's Tragedy
Databank A-Z: Imperial Future Council–Inquisitorius
Databank A-Z: InterGalactic Banking Clan–Jakku
Highlights of the Saga: Battle of Kashyyyk
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Databank A-Z: Queen Jamillia–Jedi Temples
Highlights of the Saga: Crash Landing on Coruscant
Starship Fact File: Storm IV Twin-Pod Cloud Car
Highlights of the Saga: The Betrayal of Captain Argyus
Databank A-Z: Kyber Crystals–Laser Cannons
Highlights of the Saga: The Unlikely Heroes
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
Databank A-Z: Davish Krail–Kuat Drive Yards
Weapons & Uniforms: Citizens of Alderaan
Weapons & Uniforms: Republic Ground Vehicles
Highlights of the Saga: Ambush on Rugosa
Highlights of the Saga: Raid on the Jedi Temple
Databank A-Z: Admiral Wiskovis–The Works
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia: Updated and Expanded
Secrets of Spaceflight: Smuggling Bosses
Guide to the Galaxy: Serenno — Home of Count Dooku
Highlights of the Saga: Striking at the New Republic
Databank A-Z: Sabe–The Separatist Council
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
Entertainment Weekly's Ultimate Guide to Rogue One
Star Wars: Rogue One: The Ultimate Visual Guide
Weapons & Uniforms: Veterans of the Clone Wars
Weapons & Uniforms: The 41st Elite Corps
Droid Directory: 3PO-series Protocol Droids, Part 1
Droid Directory: R2-series Astromech Droids, Part 2
Droid Directory: 3PO-series Protocol Droids, Part 2
Databank A-Z: Tusken Raiders–Captain Typho
Droid Directory: 2-1B-series Medical Droids, Part 1
Highlights of the Saga: Flight from Naboo
Highlights of the Saga: The Rebirth of Caleb Dume
Weapons & Uniforms: Imperial Trooper Variants
Databank A-Z: Tractor Beams–Tri-Fighters
Star Wars Super Graphic: A Visual Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
Star Wars Forces of Destiny: Meet the Heroes
Databank A-Z: VCX-100 Light Freighter–Veers
Weapons & Uniforms: Grand Admiral Thrawn
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, Updated and Expanded
Forces of Destiny: Tales of Hope & Courage
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles
Star Wars Lightsabers: A Guide to Weapons of the Force
Solo: A Star Wars Story The Official Guide
Star Wars: Resistance Bomber Book and 3D Wood Model
Solo: A Star Wars Story: Tales from Vandor
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Star Wars: Scum and Villainy: Case Files on the Galaxy's Most Notorious
YT-1300 Millennium Falcon Owners' Workshop Manual
Squad Seven Veteran — ARC-170 Starfighter
Blue Squadron Protector — V-19 Torrent Starfighter
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
Naboo Royal N-1 Starfighter Expansion Pack
Naboo Royal N-1 Starfighter Expansion Pack
Naboo Royal N-1 Starfighter Expansion Pack
Naboo Handmaiden — Naboo Royal N-1 Starfighter
Star Wars: How Not to Get Eaten by Ewoks and Other Galactic Survival Skills
Rebel Starfighters Owners' Workshop Manual
Republic Judiciary — CR90 Corellian Corvette
Star Wars: The Galactic Explorer's Guide
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Clone Wars - Season 7 Episode Series
"Gone with a Trace" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Deal No Deal" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Together Again" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Old Friends Not Forgotten" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Shattered" Episode Guide - The Clone Wars
Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge: Traveler's Guide to Batuu
Every Ship in the Star Wars Sequel Trilogy
Republic, Rebel, and Resistance Starfighters
The Battle of Hoth and the Second Death Star
Star Wars: The High Republic | Launch Trailer
The Final Order and the Battle of Exegol
Chancellor Lina Soh | Characters of Star Wars: The High Republic
(First identified as Jewel of the Core Worlds)
Star Wars: The Clone Wars: Character Encyclopedia - Join the Battle!
Inside Intel: The Creation of the Clone Army
"Aftermath" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
"Cornered" Episode Guide - The Bad Batch
"Decommissioned" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
Inside Intel: Palpatine's Contingency Plan
Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy
Under the Helmet: The Legacy of Boba Fett
Star Wars Droids Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
Stranger | The Book of Boba Fett | Disney+
: 5 Highlights from "Chapter 6: From the Desert Comes a Stranger"
at 20 | Hayden Christensen Looks Back at His First Steps as Anakin Skywalker
at 20 | Rob Coleman on Bringing Yoda, Dexter Jettster, and More to Digital Life
at 20 | Costume Designer Trisha Biggar Reflects on Her Most Challenging Film
Obi-101: Everything You Need to Know About Obi-Wan Kenobi
10 of Obi-Wan Kenobi's Greatest Moments (So Far)
SWCA 2022: Respawn's Stig Asmussen Talks
and Reflects on Its Predecessor – Exclusive
Star Wars: Attack of the Clones 20th Anniversary Celebration | Star Wars Celebration Anaheim 2022
SWCA 2022: 7 Things We Learned from the Lucasfilm Publishing Behind the Page Panel
Star Wars: The Bad Batch | Season 2 Teaser Trailer | Disney+
Inside the Lucasfilm Archive: An Elegant Weapon and Other Jedi Artifacts from the
Costumes Revealed at the Lucasfilm Pavilion
Andor | Official Trailer | Disney+ (2:25)
Analyzed: 5 Highlights from Episode 4, "Aldhani"
Actor Genevieve O'Reilly on the Legacy of Mon Mothma
Tales of the Jedi Poster Art, Mon Mothma Arrives in Andor, and More!
"Heroes of Their Own Journeys": Denise Gough and Kyle Soller Bring Complexity to
"Nobody's Listening!" Episode Guide | Andor
Analyzed: 5 Highlights from Episode 9, "Nobody's Listening!"
Analyzed: 5 Highlights from Episode 10, "One Way Out"
Star Wars: The Secrets of the Bounty Hunters
Star Wars: The Bad Batch Season 2 | Official Trailer | Disney+
"The Empire Is Everywhere": The Creators of
Star Wars: The High Republic: Chronicles of the Jedi
High Republic Phase II Deep Dive, Star Wars Celebration, and More!
Jon Favreau and Dave Filoni Talk Mandalore, Jaxxon Returns, and More!
Bounty Hunting Highlights: 5 of Our Favorite Moments from
Mando Download: "Chapter 19: The Convert"
Designing "The Rise of the Empire": Andre Kirk on the Bleak New Era in
Day Wanna Wanga - The Tale of the Twi'leks
SDCC 2023: 10 Reveals from the Lucasfilm Publishing Panel
Master & Apprentice: A Special Look at Ahsoka
Dexter Jettster Remembers a Fallen Friend in
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Defining Moments: Ahsoka and Anakin Say Goodbye
Star Wars: Dawn of Rebellion: The Visual Guide
Tales of the Empire | Official Trailer | Disney+
Star Wars Bestiary, Vol. 1: Creatures of the Galaxy
Star Wars: The High Republic: The Lightsaber Collection
Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy
Star Wars: Complete Locations, New Edition
Wookiee Basketball, Kid Han Solo, and a Kenobi Dummy: 20 Fun Facts about
Star Wars: The Acolyte: The Visual Guide
Star Wars: Galactic Atlas: Updated Edition
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Guide to the Galaxy: Galactic Time and Dates
Guide to the Galaxy: Coruscant Underworld
The Mighty Chewbacca in the Forest of Fear!
Star Wars: Scum and Villainy: Case Files on the Galaxy's Most Notorious
Star Wars: The Acolyte: The Visual Guide
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Victory's Price: An Alphabet Squadron Novel
Star Wars: Complete Locations, New Edition
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
#2.09: Inside "The Future of the Force" | Star Wars Rebels
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
Star Wars: The High Republic Character Encyclopedia
. "Part Seven: Dreams and Madness" takes place after the
. Therefore, Seasons One through Three of
. Preceding episodes, also take place in that year, since they take place after
Part Eight: The Jedi, the Witch, and the Warlord
" takes place shortly after Part Seven, the events of
as a whole must all take place within the same year.
Star Wars: The Galactic Explorer's Guide
takes place immediately after the end of
Every Ship in the Star Wars Sequel Trilogy
The Art of Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker