This article has multiple issues and is in need of major additions and/or work.
It is requested that this article, or a section of this article, be expanded. ({{
Parts of this article have been identified as no longer being up to date. ({{
}}) The article needs to be updated with
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
Choose Your Destiny: A Clone Trooper Mission
The Crimson Corsair and the Lost Treasure of Count Dooku
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, Updated and Expanded
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
Star Wars: The Clone Wars: Character Encyclopedia - Join the Battle!
Please help Wookieepedia by editing this article. Once you have fixed an issue, you may remove it from the list of issues. See this article's
Independent Movement for Self-Determination
I want only to bring peace and order to the galaxy.
Already so many have suffered for what you call 'order'.
Then let me give you peace, Master Yaddle.
, the Dark Lord of the Sith, whose plan to conquer
against the Republic. As such, Dooku immersed himself in the dark side of
and worked tirelessly to advance his and his
while being unaware that he was merely a pawn of his master.
, Dooku was taken by the Jedi Order after being abandoned by his
of the Jedi Order; he went on to take the maverick
Dooku left the Order and returned to his
, where he reclaimed his title of Count and heritage as a
. His former peers believed his decision was misguided but still held him in high esteem. However the Count of Serenno began to secretly conspire with Darth Sidious. After the
, Dooku embraced the dark side and adopted the name of Darth Tyranus upon fully becoming the apprentice of Darth Sidious. Throughout the first
, Dooku used his resources and charisma to recruit entire
, he oversaw the development of two vast
that would be pitted against each other in the conflict to come: the
of maneuvering the galaxy into a state of war, the Clone Wars began when the newly formed
. As leader of the Separatists, Dooku delegated
authority to a cadre of subordinates personally trained by himself, including
. While Grievous was trained only in the art of
, affording her the opportunity to learn the ways of the dark side from Dooku. The Sith, however, remained faithful to
; and as such, Dooku was compelled to betray his disciple after Sidious became suspicious of his own apprentice's intentions. Though he sought to replace Ventress with
, Dooku ultimately remained beholden to his master's will, which would eventually be his undoing.
By the third year of the war, Dooku and Grievous succeeded in abducting Chancellor Palpatine (per Sidious' plan) from the Republic
following Dooku's death, Palpatine revealed to the Jedi that he was, in fact, Darth Sidious, who betrayed his apprentice in order to replace him with the younger and more promising Skywalker. With the subsequent
, which Tyranus had an instrumental role in establishing. As for Skywalker, he succeeded the late Darth Tyranus as Sidious' third and last apprentice, resulting in his transformation into Darth Vader and proving his slain victim's words of sensing fear, hate, and anger.
Rescue of Quinlan Vos and the end of Ventress
, who hated and feared those he dismissed as "freaks." Gora contacted the
and told them to take his son. However, instead of waiting for the
to arrive, Gora abandoned the infant outside his palace on the edges of the forest without
or any form of identification. A seeker rescued Dooku before he froze to
Dooku was raised in the Jedi Temple on Coruscant, where he learned the ways of the Force alongside other younglings.
, he continuously strove to excel, working himself hard to achieve better results than his peers and always striving to remain within the boundaries of the rules set by his teachers. Dooku therefore distanced himself from the other younglings rather than try to befriend them. His talents made him clash with fellow youngling Tarrex, largely due to the latter's jealousy over Dooku's superior abilities. Tarrex frequently insulted Dooku, calling him 'His Excellency' due to his imperious and somewhat aristocratic manner. Dooku and Sifo-Dyas were close friends during their time as younglings, and on one occasion
being held there with other Jedi in tow.
As the Masters were demonstrating the proper lightsaber stances, a pair of children set off some thunderburst caps and ran off, Dooku thought he recognized one of them and followed them out to the fairgrounds. There he found the two being harassed by a trio of thugs that were threatening to kidnap them, Dooku used his Force powers and an electroblade to force the criminals to back off. Afterwards, the pair introduced themselves as
, though the latter was less than thankful for the Jedi's assistance. When she learned Dooku was from Serenno, Jenza offered to give Dooku a tour of the homeworld he never knew.
They explored the celebration together playing games and tasting the food, becoming fast friends as they got to know each other. Eventually, Jenza took Dooku to the
, where she showed him the seals of the seven houses and told him the legend of how her ancestors liberated the planet from the Sith Empire. Though before they could leave Dooku felt drawn to an ancient carving of a beast, that was identified by Jenza as a
. Ignoring her warning that it was bad luck, he moved to touch it, and as his finger brushed the stone, a
caused the building around them to collapse.
Though Dooku attempted to lift the debris off of them himself, it took the intervention of Master Yoda to free the the two from the rubble. Once the other Masters helped the Grand Master remove the collapsed structure from the area, Count Gora of Serenno furiously confronted Yoda when he heard Dooku's name being voiced, yelling at the Jedi that he never wished to see his son again. It was here that the young Jedi learned that Gora was his Father and Jenza his sister.
Shocked and confused by his father's behavior, Dooku later questioned Yoda about how he was brought into the Jedi Order. The elder Jedi revealed that Gora had contacted the Jedi upon discovering his son's Force-sensitivity, and that he had left Dooku outside his castle walls without clothes or identification. Dooku would learn shortly after that being left on the edge of the forest put him at risk of being eaten alive by Spine-wolves had he not been found. Upon arriving back at the Jedi Temple on Coruscant, his injuries were quickly healed and the young Jedi quickly threw himself back into his training. Dooku using this practice to vent his frustrations at Count Gora for abandoning him, and furthermore to think deeply about what he might have been if he had never become a Jedi. At this time an attendant arrived with a communications device that would allow him to speak to his sister, and they stayed in contact for many years.
Dooku had a friendship with his fellow Jedi Initiate Sifo-Dyas.
, after a lesson in the Jedi Archives Sifo-Dyas revealed to Dooku he had come into possession of the journal of the expelled Jedi
, which revealed to him the existence of the
inside the Jedi Archives. Sifo convinced Dooku that they should break in to see the dark side artifacts. Dooku later used sand levitation to get past the magnetic lock. There they witnessed many dark objects, weapons, and scrolls the Jedi had collected over their history. Dooku in particular was drawn to a piece of metal that seemed to connect him to the same Tirra'Taka he had first encountered on Serenno. This frightened the boy, who lashed out through the Force and accidentally threw Sifo-Dyas through a cabinet, alerting the Chief Librarian,
The two initiates were brought to the infirmary where Sifo's injuries were treated, and they were confronted by Masters Yoda and Braylon, who each expressed a deep disappointment in how they had broken the rules and betrayed their trust. As the Masters were lecturing them, their discussion was interrupted by the arrival of
, who expressed great concern over the security of the
since two younglings had been able to break in. Dooku and Sifo-Dyas watched the Masters debate their conflicting views on how best to train the next generation to confront the Dark Side. Afterwards, they were assigned to decipher the
, a collection of agricultural treatises, under the watchful eyes of Librarian Quist. As they served their penance, they had another encounter with Lene Kostana who was surprised that Yoda was still using the same treatises as punishment for misbehaved younglings, and playfully referred to the Grand Master as a goblin which offended Dooku. As she left, Sifo-Dyas discovered she slipped him a book:
. Dooku encouraged his friend to tell someone about the text, but Sifo refused.
This event greatly disturbed Dooku, who began to think Master Kostana might secretly be a Sith, one day he confronted her on the
demanding to know why she gave his friend the Sith script. She said the book was a test, though Dooku sensed a great deal of frustration and anger in her which he believed legitimized his theory. The two engaged in a short duel, during which Master Kostana played an act of goading him on, using the tale of
to the fictional Sith's weapon, and revealing she was aware of Dooku's curious connection to the Tirra'Taka. Unfortunately Kostana quickly lost control of the situation as Dooku began a frenzy of attacks that began wearing down her defenses. Their fight was broken up by the timely intervention of Master Yoda who calmed the initiate down and convinced him that he had jumped to conclusions. The Grand Master then chided the Altiri on her constant need to test the initiates by exposing them to dark side artifacts. Following this event Dooku began to spend more time with Master Kostana, as he started to look to her as a mentor figure, since he took a great deal of interest in her work studying the dark side, her theories concerning the Sith, and even her pet
Ferana. He visited her nearly every time she returned to the Temple following her missions.
Perhaps the best Padawan of your generation, you were.
, Master Yoda? Besides, I recall getting into more
than any other Padawan of my generation.
―Yoda and Dooku reflect on their time together as master and apprentice
Dooku was the Padawan of Grand Master Yoda and grew into an esteemed Jedi in his own right.
and hoped to be selected as the Padawan apprentice to Lene Kostana due to her mission in hunting down relics associated with the dark side. During the Padawan Tournament, Dooku fought and defeated Sifo-Dyas in a duel with one hand behind his back and blindfolded. However, Kostana selected Sifo-Dyas as her apprentice, which upset Dooku, though this disappointment subsided when he learned that Yoda had decided to take him as his apprentice.
A strong bond developed between Dooku and Yoda as his training continued.
On one occasion, Yoda took Dooku on a voyage to
, Dooku watched as his master faced a giant
of a deadly solar storm hitting the planet
. After informing the Jedi Council, Dooku supported Sifo-Dyas and Kostana's suggestion that they warn the planet, but was forbidden to by Yoda and the Council, who pointed out that Force visions were not absolute and the future was always in motion.
Frustrated with the Council, Dooku, Kostana, and Sifo-Dyas went behind the Council's back to inform
, the senator who represented Protobranch, of the vision. During the conversation, Dooku was slightly unnerved by Tavetti only expressing concern for Protobranch's resources rather than its people. Afterwards, Dooku, Kostana, Sifo-Dyas and a reluctant Yoda went to the planet itself. Ultimately, Sifo-Dyas' vision came to pass; a
hit Protobranch, killing much of the population, with the Jedi themselves barely surviving.
The events with Protobranch shook Dooku's respect for the Republic and the Jedi Council, feeling the latter was somewhat responsible for the deaths that occurred by not taking Sifo-Dyas' vision seriously and refusing to act quicker. He was also disgusted by the fact that the Republic's primary concern was the loss of Protobranch's resources and not its inhabitants.
a twenty year old Dooku attended the funeral of his mother, Anya, on Serenno. It was here that his father Gora physically and verbally assaulted him, referring to his son as a "freak." Shortly afterward, Dooku joined Sifo-Dyas and his master Kostana on a
. However, the pair were led into a trap by the
who tricked them into following a supposed trail of
. Dooku was briefly captured by the Presagers to be used as part of a dark side ritual. It was during his brief captivity that he experienced a series of visions of his future, and he used
for the first time in order to kill his captors. After which Master Kostana and Sifo-Dyas taught him a
involving arm wrappings that was designed to keep him centered in the force.
You know, My Lady, Count Dooku was once a Jedi. He couldn't assassinate anyone. It's not in his character.
, Dooku completed his training with Yoda and became a Jedi Knight and eventually Jedi Master, rising to be one of the greatest Jedi of his generation. A veteran of many galactic conflicts, he was known for his exceptional skills as a lightsaber duelist.
as his Padawan, training him for 10 years and to Knighthood. Dooku had also set aside his
which produced a blue blade. Dooku used his lightsaber when he and Yoda demonstrated their lightsaber skills to a group of younglings, amongst them the
Furthermore, Dooku was the main lightsaber instructor for
Don't be so sure, my young Jedi. You forget that he was once my apprentice, just as you were once his.
Dooku was the Jedi Master of Qui-Gon Jinn, who eventually achieved the same rank in the Jedi Order.
Dooku having finished training Averross by this point, would take a 12-year-old Qui-Gon Jinn as his second Padawan. On the evening of Qui-Gon being assigned to him, Jinn presented himself to his new Master in Dooku's quarters, Dooku observed that Jinn was frightened. After a moment of silence, and pressing him, Jinn confessed that he was frightened. He asked his apprentice why and after looking into himself through the fear, Jinn answered that he was not afraid of Dooku, but of not becoming a Jedi, that he was afraid of failing and of not being worthy. Dooku then summarized it as Jinn being afraid of himself, of a future not being the one he wanted. Jinn confirmed it, fearing that Dooku will reject him for his apparent cowardice. Dooku instead said that it was very wise, surprising Jinn. Smiling, he would explain that most Padawans would deny their fear, and even if they admitted it, they would not have Jinn's self-knowledge. He then further praised Jinn for his honesty, insight, and intelligence.
To help Jinn understand the Jedi Temple more completely, Dooku decided to take him throughout most of the Temple, including the Padawans' sparring dojo, and the one for full Jedi Knights, and the
. Their last stop was the Jedi Archives, where they examined
of various eras, not to study them, but simply for Jinn to learn his way around. While doing so, a particularly old holocron, more ancient and of a different shape than the rest, caught Jinn's eye. When he questioned his Master about it, he was shocked by the expression on Dooku's face, almost as if he considered it an enemy. Dooku answered that it was a holocron of Jedi prophecies. Jinn asked if there were Jedi prophets, to which Dooku replied not any longer. He explained to Jinn that the mystics sought undue knowledge of the future which led them down dangerous paths. Those drawn too deeply into them were often tempted by the dark side. Dooku then finished by saying that is why the Jedi study prophecy no longer, then turned to leave, which meant Jinn had to follow. Jinn then asked Dooku if just wanting to know the future can lead to the dark side. Dooku simply replied that it takes more than that.
After training Qui-Gon for several months the Council sent him with his apprentice to
to participate in a battle on its surface, which was Qui-Gon's very first. When they landed on the surface the encountered his first apprentice, Rael Averross, whom Dooku introduced to his new apprentice. Eventually, a
, including Dooku and Jinn, was assembled and sent to find notorious
and a handful of followers. After her followers were rounded up, it was left to Dooku and Jinn to bring Mol in. Whilst searching for her hideout, Jinn was captured by Mol, but before she could kill him, he was saved by Dooku who struck her with Force lightning. Jinn later told Rael Averross what Dooku had done, but he was unconcerned.
I wonder if any meaningful change will come of this."
"Is that why you took action into your own hands?"
"Well, then. You're a much wiser man than I, Qui-Gon Jinn.
―Dooku and Qui-Gon Jinn after confronting Senator Dagonet
, one of the Republic's longest serving members, Dooku and Jinn traveled to the Senator's
. To the stoic Jedi master and young Padawan's surprise, the planet's surface was little more than a wasteland which had been completely stripped of its natural resources and ravaged by over-industrialization. The two Jedi headed for a barren village in the distance. As they walked through the village, not a single resident dared step outside of their homes nor answer Qui-Gon's questions, which prompted them to enter the local inn. Fearless and keeping his unperplexed Jedi manner, Dooku immediately asked for the abducted child of the Senator twice. One of the villagers questioned why she should tell them, to which Dooku responded by producing his lightsaber. Once the villagers realized that Dooku and Qui-Gon were Jedi, Dooku stated their intention to resolve the situation and Qui-Gon assured the villagers that they were not acting on behalf of the Senator, which prompted the villager to ask how much they knew of the Senator. She explained that the village's desolate surroundings were proof that the Senator, who might have had good intentions at the beginning, had begun to neglect his people. Qui-Gon asked the villager why the people did not simply elect a new Senator, to which she replied that things were not so easy. She then agreed to show the Jedi where the Senator's son was located. At this point, Qui-Gon and Dooku were surprised to discover that virtually every visitor present at the inn had been involved in the kidnapping.
Dooku and Qui-Gon Jinn attempt to locate Senator Dagonet's son.
Escorted to a barn, the Jedi found the Senator's son restrained and surrounded by a droid and armed villagers. Dooku asked if the boy had been harmed, and having been assured that he had not, asked what the boy knew of the villagers' living conditions. The boy did not blame them for kidnapping him as he sympathized with their circumstance. At that point, however, a villager entered and informed the group that Senator Dagonet had arrived with dozens of armed soldiers. The villagers immediately accused the Jedi of leading them into a trap, but Dooku calmed them by stating that their investigation was unknown to the Senator. Outside, Jedi and kidnappers watched as the Senator handed bread to the villager who had given up his son's location. One of the kidnappers remarked that many in the village would have done the same. Senator Dagonet ordered Dooku and Qui-Gon to apprehend the villagers and release his son at once. Placing himself between the Senator and his people, Dooku tried to calm the escalating tension by stating that their investigation was incomplete. The prideful Senator demanded his son's release, to which Dooku responded that the young man was in no immediate danger and that further investigation was needed. Unwilling to delay any longer, the Senator ordered
of soldiers to prepare to attack the villagers, which caused the villagers to raise their own weapons. The Senator then gave the Jedi one more chance to step aside, but Dooku refused. Dagonet claimed that the Jedi were supposed to serve him, but Dooku corrected him and stated that the Jedi served the people of the Republic,
its leaders. His patience exhausted, the frustrated Senator commanded his soldiers to aim and be ready to open fire. In an effort to protect the villagers, the two Jedi ignited their lightsabers.
Dooku touched the dark side of the Force and was prepared to murder the arrogant senator of the Republic.
A firefight erupted, and the precise shots of the soldiers began to overwhelm the kidnappers while the Jedi could only defend themselves and watch the ensuing massacre. After finishing off most of the villagers, Senator Dagonet stopped his soldiers. Dooku, finding himself surrounded by citizens of the Republic who had been killed by their own leader, felt a sense of righteous anger which led him to tap into the dark side of the Force. As the Senator proclaimed that he would not be deterred by anyone, he was stopped mid-sentence as his throat began to constrict from Dooku's sudden Force choke. Alarmed, Qui-Gon tried to stop his master, but Dooku Force pushed him back into the door of the barn and continued to torture the arrogant Senator. The remaining soldiers were unable to resist the Jedi Master as he approached and stood in front of the struggling Senator, who had collapsed on the ground as he struggled to breath. Meanwhile, Qui-Gon, sensing only one opportunity to save the Senator's life, rushed back into the barn and freed his son. Dooku, who had given in completely to the Dark Side in his desire to eradicate corruption, would have killed the defenseless Senator, but the Senator's son rushed forward and begged the Jedi to stop. As Qui-Gon told Dooku it was over, Dooku finally regained his composure and let go of Senator Dagonet.
In the aftermath, the Senator left the planet with his son, who promised to make things right for his people. The villagers nodded in gratitude for the Jedi's efforts as they started to rebuild their village. Dooku proclaimed his doubts that anything would change as a result of this ordeal, which made his Padawan question if that was his master's motivation to take action. Dooku congratulated Qui-Gon's success in saving so many lives. His Padawan stated it was just a matter on focusing on the moment, which made Dooku warmly acknowledge him as a much wiser man than himself as they walked to their ship.
Your ideology, while faulty, does have its points."
"I'm surprised to hear that from a Jedi."
[…] "I don't condone your methods, but you had every right to protect your planet. Make sure your people don't lose heart and evolve, Semage. It is the only way you will truly have victory. I say that for all of us.
―Dooku and Semage, the senator guard, after the latter was detained for killing a Senator and a Jedi
were given instructions to return the body of Master
, to the Jedi temple so she could have a proper burial. Dooku was suspicious of the circumstances surrounding Katri's death, as no reason behind it, nor the identity of her murderers, was known. Furthermore, since the Raxus Senator,
had been present during the ambush, Dooku wondered how he had survived when Katri, a fully-trained Jedi Master, had not. Because of his suspicions, Dooku believed they needed to do more to honor Katri and investigate her death, but Windu was firm in his beliefs that the rules were there for a reason.
Dooku and Windu were attacked by the Raxus guards.
The pair eventually touched down on Raxus Secundus, where they met with Senator
, who said he was there with Katri at the time of her death. Dooku asked Larik to explain what happened, but the senator acted cagey and Dooku noticed elements of his story didn't line up. Windu shared this belief and concern and wanted to take the information to the Jedi Council. Dooku, however, wanted to follow the lead himself. They all headed off together to meet an informant at the place where Katri and Larik were supposedly ambushed, following Dooku's plan. Examining the crime scene, the Dooku and Windu deduced there were more than one attacker, but also noticed that there were no blaster marks on the Senator's ship. Suspecting that the senator might've had something to do with Katri's death, Dooku ignited his lightsaber and scathingly demanded the truth. Terrified, Larik immediately turned and admitted that the guards killed Katri, but he was shot dead instantly for uttering the truth.
Dooku speaks to Semage about his ideals.
Dooku and Windu were also attacked by the guards, but they got the better of the men and their droids, defeated them. When they got the final man,
, down on his knees, he admitted that they killed Katri because the group he was operating within had learned Larik was using his Senate seat to become rich at the expense of their planet, industrializing it and selling it off piece by piece. Semage explained to Dooku and Windu that the reason they kept Larik alive was to make him enact their own rules at the next Senate hearing meeting to reverse the damage done. When Windu questioned why Semage did not inform Katri of Larik's corruption, Semage insisted that though the Jedi claimed to bring peace, they were really only at the whim of the Senate, and only kept law and order for the rich. The pair eventually put Semage in lockup, but Dooku understood how he felt and decided to go to his cell to meet him, telling him that while he did not condone his methods, he believed they had a right to protect their planet.
Dooku also told him to make sure his people continued to evolve and did not lose heart, telling him that it was the only way to ensure victory.
Having solved Katri's murder, Dooku and Windu brought her body back to the Jedi temple, where she was honored and cremated in a ceremony. After the funeral, Dooku approached Windu to ask if he had been offered Master Katri's council seat, as rumors claimed that he had. When Windu confirmed that it was the case, a suspicious Dooku questioned if Windu was aware Katri's position was open before they left for Raxus. Insisting that he had no idea about it before taking the case, Windu explained that he believed he had been given the seat over Dooku because Dooku did not stick to the mission and acted in a way that led to a senator's death. Nevertheless, Windu told Dooku that he would speak to the Council on his behalf.
Also growing suspicious of Windu's elevation,
Dooku was more resentful than grateful but thanked him nonetheless.
, the pair were invited by council member
to join her in representing the Jedi at the annual Coruscant
in hopes of making a good impression on the
ambassador who had invited her. Dooku and Master Yula Braylon expressed frustration at the Council's obsession with politics, but Aerith pointed out Dooku's charisma made him a natural conversationalist, for which she was not.
Dooku agreed to attend and took the opportunity to teach his apprentice some Candovant customs, but while he was there, he ran into his brother Ramil who was participating in the
. Dooku questioned why he as the heir to the Serrenian throne was racing, but the older man dismissed him. While Ramil did very well in the race, it quickly became apparent his
was sabotaged and it crashed. Dooku and his apprentice discreetly went to see what had happened, and while there they discovered the Investigator was trying to cover up the incident. Following the man, they found he was working for a
. Ignoring a message from Aerith asking them to return to the races, they chose to confront and captured the criminal, and while questioning her they realized that she was privy to Council communications, as Cenevax made clear she knew they that had been recalled and were disobeying order by being there. With this information, Dooku deduced that she had a spy on the Council.
Calling the Temple Guard, Dooku escorted Cenevax to the Council Chamber where he made his accusation, the Council was disturbed by this but through the Force he sensed Yula Braylon's guilt. Igniting his lightsaber, he called her out, and in return she ignited hers and asked Dooku if he intended to kill her. Relenting, he stated he simply wanted justice and placed her under arrest. Further investigation revealed that Cenevax had been blackmailing her with the fact that Arath Tarrex was in fact her son. Dooku and Qui Gon confronted and exposed Tarrex, who was then taken into custody for his actions and also for having sold out his mother's influence to criminals. Braylon's actions caused her to be removed from the council. When it was done, Dooku inquired into what would happen to Cenevax and Yoda informed him she would be taken to the
. Dooku was dismayed at the prospect of the Jedi taking the law into their own hands, as well as Master Braylon's mistrust of the Jedi Order which brought her into that situation in the first place. His faith in the order was shaken once again. Dooku was then offered a seat on the Council, which he accepted, as he felt change needed to come to the order from within.
Eventually, Qui-Gon graduated to knighthood and went on to become a Master himself. He later took a Padawan:
Dooku maintained some contact with Jinn, who spoke very highly about his apprentice Kenobi to his former master.
. She later fell to the dark side and was killed for becoming an embarrassment. She created two red-bladed lightsabers that Dooku held on to after his death.
Over time, Dooku became disillusioned with the Republic due to its corruption
and believed that the Jedi Order had become too connected to the government.
The Jedi have been my family since I was a child, the Temple my home. But my future lies here, on Serenno.
Dooku became a Jedi renunciate, leaving the Order despite his years as a Jedi and the bond he once shared with his former Master.
Darth Sidious, on Coruscant after Dooku delivered an address to the
. He then returned to his ancestral home of Serenno with Master Kostana and Sifo-Dyas after his sister Jenza pleaded for his help. Dooku became embroiled in the
, caused by his brother, Count Ramil, who had hired
to attack the planet to turn its people against the Republic. In the ensuring battle, Dooku killed Ramil.
Reclaiming the title of Count of Serenno after killing his brother, Dooku also took possession of his family fortune, one of the largest in the galaxy. Believing his people needed him, Dooku decided he needed to leave the Jedi to lead Serenno, feeling it was his responsibility after all his brother had done. Furthermore, the people of the planet had found new resources, a deposit of
, which they could produce themselves. The Republic offered to help with the resources despite having previously decided the Abyssin crisis was an internal affair. Dooku rejected the Republic's aid, deciding the recovery of Serenno would also be an internal matter as well. Contacting Yoda, Dooku explained his choices to his mentor and remained steadfast in his choice to leave.
Although it saddened them, Yoda promised Dooku that choice was respected by the Jedi Council. When Dooku stated he would turn over his lightsaber, Yoda told him to keep the blade; his mentor explained that being a Jedi was more than a title, so he was to keep the weapon. After saying goodbye to Yoda, the count said goodbye to his old friend Sifo-Dyas, promising that they would see each other again. At the age of 60, Dooku had left the order. Dooku then became one of the
Dooku's bust was cast to commemorate him as one of the Lost Twenty.
Despite his newfound wealth and power, however, Dooku all but disappeared from public life after his resignation. Due to the Count spending most time away from the eye of the public, most believed that he had gone into a sort of self-imposed
with the intention of founding an offshoot of the Jedi Order.
Dooku was, however, still welcome within the Temple on Coruscant due to his past as a Jedi. As such, he often returned to it and had meetings with the Council. One day
he returned for one such meeting while the Council was feuding with Jinn.
However, at some point during this period, specifically only a short time after his departure from the Order,
Dooku was approached by Darth Sidious, who saw the former Jedi as a potential leader for a Separatist movement against the Republic. Using the Count's frustration with the Republic and the Jedi Order, the Dark Lord would start turning Dooku to the dark side.
Ultimately vowing to wipe away the corruption within the organizations he had once served,
Dooku shared his misgivings with Sidious
convinced to embrace the dark side of the Force so as to achieve his aims.
While Sidious already had a Sith apprentice in
, he secretly recruited Dooku to his cause,
Dooku shared with his former Padawan Rael Averross that he had discovered a great power that he wished to share with Averross. However, Averross rebuffed Dooku's offer and before cutting the transmission, informing his former master that he had chosen the light and was not interested in what Dooku had to offer him.
Nonetheless, over Dooku's many visits to the temple, Yoda failed to sense
Sifo-Dyas, Kamino, the Clones. I have betrayed everyone and everything I know.
No, you have been loyal to a greater cause.
How many have died because of my actions?
After accepting Sidious' offer, Dooku helped his new ally to implement much of the groundwork necessary to begin the Clone Wars,
even using his access to the Jedi Temple to further the Sith
As Dooku understood the plan, he would lead the Separatist movement so as to generate a crisis and war through which Sidious—as Palpatine—would grow his executive power, thereby allowing the Republic to be cleaned from within: thanks to the strong guiding hand of the Sith, Dooku believed corruption would be purged from the outdated systems of the Republic
while order and peace would be established for all of the galaxy. While Dooku had private misgivings about his actions, he continued his work even as it resulted in numerous deaths so as to bring forth his idea of a better tomorrow.
The most important project that he oversaw during that time was the creation of a
intended for use by the Republic during the planned war.
It was unknown how the Sith had learned about the army,
but Dooku would later claim his old friend Jedi Master Sifo-Dyas had willingly brought him into the fold to help establish it. Greatly troubled by the Republic's tumultuous political situation and the Jedi Council's apparent complacency, Dyas ordered the clone army from the
, which Dyas hoped to hold in reserve in case of civil war.
who had been shown to be a brilliant military leader
with a remarkable reputation as a successful warlord on his homeworld of
Dooku and Sidious saw Grievous's potential when Grievous led his people in a
When the Kaleesh armies forced the Yam'rii from their home, the insects took a surprising move and sought assistance from the Galactic Republic,
against the Kaleesh invaders. The Kaleesh were condemned and hit with embargoes and fines, causing hundreds of thousands of Kaleesh to die of starvation. Grievous's hatred for the Republic and the Jedi intensified,
which prompted him to ally with the InterGalactic Clan. Grievous became an enforcer
and was phenomenally successful as one of the IGBC's most important resources. With his exploits having already piqued the interest of both Dooku and Sidious, they developed big plans for him,
particularly seeing him as a way to test experiments with technologically advanced beings.
Dooku had Grievous rebuilt as far more machine than man.
Grievous willingly took the Sith up on their offer of cybernetic enhancements
and replaced portions of his body over time.
Grievous was nearly totally gutted and mutilated by
Dooku offered the Kaleesh warrior life-saving surgery
and claimed that a Jedi was responsible for the sabotage,
which fueled Grievous to accept reconstruction and return to military service
with a deep and fierce hatred of the Jedi,
however, in truth, Dooku was directly responsible for Grievous' injuries and subsequent transformation. Under Dooku's direction, Separatist
nearly completely reconstructed Grievous. Dooku initially gave the general a
and had him spend hours upon hours studying
of Jedi in battle and reading all the training manuals he could furnish him with.
Dooku continued to instruct Grievous in lightsaber combat,
making him even more lethal. Grievous then modified and improved his cybernetic body throughout time and was soon unleashed on the galaxy.
Master Yaddle is right about one thing. A Sith Lord is not to be trifled with. And I will not be there to protect you, my old Padawan."
"You need not worry, Master. Obi-Wan fills that role now. He acquits himself quite well."
"That's good. I should like to meet him someday. You're always singing his praises.
―Dooku and Qui-Gon Jinn after the latter first encountered Darth Maul
, where he used Sifo Dyas' authorization to erase data on the existence of the planet
, where the clone army Dyas had ordered was being developed. After doing so, he noticed commotion between the Jedi within the archives and asked
about it, who informed him that his former Padawan Qui-Gon Jinn had encountered with an alleged Sith Lord on the
on the planet. Gunray, however, under orders from Sidious—who had engineered the conflict to get himself elected Supreme Chancellor—ordered for the two Jedi to be killed, though their attempts failed and the two Jedi managed to escape Naboo alongside its queen,
. On their way to Coruscant, the crew made a stop at Tatooine, where they encountered Maul, whom they managed to evade.
Upon hearing that, Dooku commented to her that Jinn had an active imagination, which Nu reminded Dooku he once had. Remarking that such a quality was valued a lot less in the Jedi Temple, Dooku left the Archives and found his way to Jinn, who was walking through the Temple halls with Master
, to ask him about the supposed Sith Lord he had encountered. Dooku guessed correctly that the Jedi Council had not wanted to believe that conclusion, adding that he had been warning them about the coming darkness for years and they had never taken him seriously. Yaddle, a council member, spoke up and insisted that, though she did not doubt his claim, they had found no reason to cause undue alarm, adding that the advice and decision of the Council was to be cautious until they knew more. While neither Jinn nor Yaddle were aware of Dooku's firsthand knowledge, the former Jedi warned them, especially Jinn, to act with caution when encountering a Sith, reminding his former Padawan that he would no longer be there to protect him. Jinn assured him that Kenobi, whom Dooku had never met but wanted to due to Jinn's high praise of the young man, looked out for him. After Jinn left, Yaddle noticed Dooku appeared conflicted, leading the two to muse about how quickly their students grew up before Dooku left.
Remember what you told me. The Jedi blindly serve a corrupt Senate that fails the Republic it represents. Do you want to prove your loyalty? Kill her!
There's still a chance to make things right.
Master Yaddle finds Count Dooku in front of the Great Tree.
Not long after, Qui-Gon, Kenobi, and Queen Amidala returned to Naboo and
, though Maul killed Qui-Gon in the process. Meanwhile,
Dooku needed to make certain that Sifo-Dyas would remain silent about the clone army. Acting under the name "Tyranus," he betrayed his friend by contacting
and instructing him to murder Sifo-Dyas by way of shooting down his shuttle during a mission.
After hearing the news of Jinn's death, Dooku visited the
in the Jedi Temple on Coruscant once again to reflect on his death, as he had taken a young Jinn to the tree often. He recounted this to Master Yaddle, who had approached him there and Yaddle informed him that
was to be held on Naboo and that the council would be traveling to attend, but Dooku informed her that he would not be attending, as he believed his presence would not be enjoyed or welcome. She asked if he blamed the council for Jinn's death, but Dooku only said that he had become one with the Force and it was thus time to let him go. Yaddle asked if he was capable of doing this, but Dooku said he had no other choice. Dooku then left and traveled to his and Sidious'
industrial zone on the planet to confront Sidious, furious that his ally's machinations had resulted in the death of his former apprentice.
Confronting the Sith Lord, Dooku accused Sidious of making him betray everything and everyone he had known. Sidious claimed that all of Dooku's actions had been in the service of a greater good and that his betrayal had been a necessary evil. Unbeknownst to Dooku, Yaddle had followed him in secret; after overhearing his conversation with Sidious, she confronted them and urged Dooku to surrender to her and help her defeat Sidious. Dooku hesitated initially but then, Sidious reminded Dooku of how the Jedi blindly served the corrupt Galactic Senate, and on Sidious' orders,
as a final test of loyalty. In spite of Yaddle's great efforts, Dooku- with his nearly unrivaled dueling prowess- quickly began to overwhelm her. Managing to hide behind Sidious' ship, Yaddle called out to Dooku, admitting that the Jedi Council had been wrong and informing him that as a result, she had chosen to step down from the body. Her last attempt at persuading Dooku failed, however. After another short exchange of blows, Yaddle retreated to the doorway leading back to her ship. As Dooku mocked her for "running back to the Council", Yaddle retorted he had run straight into the arms of evil.
Angered, Dooku attacked Yaddle with greater ferocity and knocked her into the frame of the large doorway, temporarily stunning the smaller Jedi Master. Dooku wasted no time and flipped the lever controlling the door, which came crashing down onto his former friend. Collapsing in anguish over what he had just done, Dooku was reassured by Sidious, who congratulated his new apprentice. To their shock, Yaddle suddenly reappeared, lifting the doorway off of herself in one final display of her immense Force power, which sapped her of remaining energy. Lying defenseless and exhausted at Dooku's feet, Yaddle stated that many would suffer under Dooku's scheme for galactic order. Dooku replied sarcastically that he would give Yaddle peace, then impaled her with his lightsaber, killing her instantly. Sidious then formally anointed Dooku as his new Sith apprentice
the same name Dooku had been using as his cover for some time.
Dooku would come to regard it as a formidable name worthy of his power.
Dooku was given Sifo-Dyas' body by the Pykes. Dooku took Dyas' body to the planet
. Once there, Dooku made it seem like the two of them had been dispatched together to solve the crisis.
Dooku made it seem like Dyas died in the local conflict,
. However, unbeknownst to Dooku, another person had been in Dyas' shuttle; the Pykes had captured Valorum's aide,
, and imprisoned him as insurance against possible betrayal by Dooku.
I'm sure you'll find the price the Kaminoans are offering is more than fair.
Dooku and his new Master conspired to grow a clone army, using the bounty hunter Jango Fett as a template.
, Dooku—under his alias Tyranus—recruited the bounty hunter
as the template for the Clone Army. Along with a considerable salary, Dooku agreed to pay Fett with an
he wanted installed in the brain of each clone, as a safeguard against rogue Jedi. To ensure the destruction of the Jedi at the right time, Sidious and Dooku retooled the chips in order to trigger a protocol called
that would forcibly brainwash the clones into murdering their Jedi superiors.
Posing as a Jedi, Tyranus deceived the Kaminoans, most notably Prime Minister
, into believing Sifo Dyas' intention, while also telling them to keep this a secret. After hiring Fett, Dooku moved onto another
by beginning to bring together galactic-level businesses, as well as planets and peoples tired of the Galactic Republic, to create an alliance of Separatists.
Independent Movement for Self-Determination
Count Dooku unveils his red lightsaber in the presence of Jak'zin.
As Dooku continued to give into the dark side, he became obsessed with his own power.
but managed to maintain a positive public image on Serenno as its protector.
to, on the surface, discuss an alliance between the
and himself. In secret, however, Dooku was to seek out the
. After a tour of one of Sullust's cities, Dooku met newly knighted Jedi Jak'zin and was invited to dinner with him and Representative
. Dooku informed Sidious of this complication who told him to find out why Jak'zin was there. At dinner, Dooku denied rumors that he was creating another order of force users and assured Jak'zin that he was looking after his family's business interest on Serenno.
Following dinner, Dooku followed Jak'zin and learned about the mission of learning about the Kaldana Syndicate. Dooku agreed to help Jak'zin on his mission. The two made their way into the syndicate's base. There, Dooku and Jak'zin discovered that the syndicate was smuggling weapons and were surrounded by the syndicate's gang. Dooku and Jak'zin fought the gangsters. After defeating the gangsters, Dooku killed Jak'zin and then spoke with the surviving gangsters. After making a deal with the syndicate and SoroSuub, Dooku left Sullust, all while reflecting on the growing Sith plan.
He is a political idealist, not a murderer.
Count Dooku instigated the Separatist movement to destabilize the Galactic Republic.
While Dooku was involved in Grievous's construction as a cyborg and trained him in lightsaber combat, he also needed his own acolyte: an apprentice of sorts.
Impressed by how she had conquered the planet
, Dooku also murdered his sister Jenza, ignoring her pleas to return to the light.
Several years after his resignation from the Jedi Order and the death of his former apprentice, Qui-Gon Jinn, Dooku re-entered the public eye in a spectacular fashion, commandeering a Republic HoloNet station in the
in which he thoroughly lambasted the corruption and shortcomings of the Republic. In a galaxy in which many Outer and Mid Rim systems were chafing under the ineffectual and corrupt bureaucracy of the Republic, Dooku's speech set the stage for the Separatist movement.
Furthermore, he began meddling in the affairs of many planets, supporting anti-Republic coups on worlds such as
and interfering in the political processes of Kashyyyk and
, among others. He also began to publicly rally systems and corporations to his cause to become the
, and publicly spurned every opportunity to negotiate with Palpatine.
At some point after the creation of the CIS, Dooku piloted
Dooku had many meetings with Governor Wilhuff Tarkin (pictured) to test the man's loyalties.
One of Dooku's first headquarters was established in the
. While the sector was largely controlled by the
, Dooku's presence ensured it became a strong supporter of the CIS.
During the time leading up to the Clone Wars, Dooku also met several times the governor of
, in an attempt to convince him to join the Separatist movement. He alluded to the governor that war was inevitable, and that he desired the support of the powerful Outer Rim world for his cause. In truth however, these meetings had been orchestrated by Palpatine to test Tarkin's loyalties, and Tarkin remained firm in this commitment to the Republic.
Dooku also promised Trade Federation Viceroy Gunray that he would assassinate Senator Amidala, whom Gunray despised, if he signed Dooku's treaty. Gunray accepted the offer; Dooku thus dispatched Jango Fett to carry out Amidala's assassination. Despite the failure of Fett's mission, Dooku was able to have the Trade Federation, the Banking Clan, the Techno Union, the Commerce Guild, and the Corporate Alliance all sign his treaty on Geonosis, formalizing the Confederacy of Independent Systems. Dooku assured them that the Jedi and the Republic would be overwhelmed by their combined forces.
The Jedi confronted Dooku on Geonosis, where he was guarded by Jango Fett and an army of Separatist battle droids.
The Separatists' assassination attempts on Amidala prompted an investigation by Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi, who tracked Fett to Geonosis. There, Dooku was meeting with leaders of the commerce guilds, and listened as they
their assets to his Confederacy. Kenobi overheard their discussion but was captured by
while transmitting his findings back to the Republic. Dooku visited Kenobi in his
cell, feigning shock at the Jedi's capture and inquiring as to his presence on Geonosis. Denying involvement with the bounty hunters, Dooku instead spoke of his former apprentice, Qui-Gon, suggesting that Jinn would have joined Dooku's movement had he learned the truth that the Sith were in control of the Senate. Though Obi-Wan refused to believe Dooku's words,
the Count attempted to recruit him in apparent opposition to Darth Sidious, and left Kenobi to his fate when he rejected the offer.
Dooku oversaw the attempted execution of Amidala, Kenobi, and Skywalker in the
, but proceedings were forestalled when Master Windu and his
arrived to rescue the condemned trio. Windu was soon outnumbered by battle droids, and Dooku watched as the Jedi were surrounded on the arena floor. He offered to spare their lives if they surrendered, but Windu refused. In a regretful tone, Dooku gave the order to terminate them, but the survivors were spared by Yoda's arrival with the clone army from Kamino. As war broke out across Geonosis, Dooku left for the
Dooku fought against Yoda before retreating as Geonosis fell to the Republic's clone forces.
As he arrived, Dooku claimed he had no idea how the Republic had gained its army and helped command the defense, assuring Poggle that his Master would not let the Republic get away with the invasion, but eventually chose to retreat. Before leaving, Dooku was given the
, assuring him that the designs would be safe with his Master. Escaping on
Dooku made for his secret hangar but was pursued by Kenobi and Skywalker's
As Dooku prepared to leave, he was confronted by Kenobi and Skywalker. He subdued Skywalker with Force lightning and fought Kenobi, overpowering and wounding him in the shoulder and leg. As Dooku prepared to make his killing move, Skywalker leapt into the battle. The two fought until Dooku cut off Skywalker's right arm, but Yoda arrived to save his allies. Dooku, eager to defeat his old master, engaged in a clash of the Force and lightsabers alike with him. The fighting was fierce but brief and cut short when Dooku brought down a pillar over Kenobi and Skywalker, forcing Yoda to break off his attack to save them. Dooku fled in his
Tyranus reported directly to Sidious on Coruscant, confirming that the Clone Wars had begun as intended by the Sith Lords.
Tyranus rendezvoused with Sidious, who was very impressed, informing him that the war had begun as planned.
Dooku and his Master recruited the cyborg General
to lead the droid army. Grievous was trained by Dooku in the Jedi arts, using lightsabers taken from his Jedi kills.
, Dooku claimed treasures from various worlds pillaged by the Separatists.
He also stole treasures from his own people on Serenno, amassing their wealth in the war chest and using it to fund the Clone Wars. Dooku's exploitation of his own people greatly damaged his reputation amongst the Serennian populous.
In time following Geonosis, Dooku commanded his droid army to seize control of the major
, separating the Republic from the majority of its army.
Soon, the Jedi will not only be at war with you, Count, but with the Hutt clan as well.
Dooku fought with Anakin Skywalker, a rising Jedi Knight and the prophesied Chosen One, on several occasions during the war.
, kidnapped and the act blamed on the Jedi. Dooku sent Ventress in her
, to Tatooine to carry out the kidnapping. She took Rotta to the
with two battalions of battle droids, where she was contacted by Dooku and then by Lord Sidious, who assured them that the Jedi would be provoked into war with Hutts as well as the Separatists. Dooku ventured to Tatooine and spoke with Jabba, claiming that the Jedi were behind his son's kidnapping, and had Ventress and her spy droid,
, provide "evidence" that Skywalker and his apprentice were responsible. Though he assured the Hutt his droid army was mounting a rescue, Dooku was informed by Ventress that Skywalker had eluded her and was escaping with Rotta.
After her defeat, Dooku had Ventress lie that Skywalker had killed the Huttlet. Jabba, believing Dooku, allowed him to send battle droids to deal with Skywalker personally. After his
. He contacted Ziro, informing him that Jabba believed his story, and assured him that he would be master of the Hutt Clans. Dooku also had Ziro take Senator Amidala prisoner when she learned of Ziro's deal. Dooku confronted Skywalker ordering the Jedi to surrender Rotta to him or die, dueling across the dunes, until Dooku realize the Huttlet was with Skywalker's apprentice,
. However, he anticipated this and had MagnaGuards wait for her, taunting Skywalker with a hologram of Tano's desperate fight. Skywalker fled in pursuit, taking Dooku's speeder, but the Dark Lord simply laughed knowing Skywalker would fail. However, after Jabba learned the truth of his uncle's deal, Dooku left Tatooine and informed Lord Sidious of his failure. Sidious told him to allow the Jedi their victory, knowing that the engines had turned in their favor according with Sidious' master plan as Jabba allowed the Republic to use the Hutt Cartel hyperspace lanes..
I sense you are one who respects strength, your highness. Our droid armies outnumber the Republic clones a hundred to one.
Perhaps, but I have heard that a single Jedi equals a hundred battle droids.
Yoda thwarted Dooku's plan to recruit the Toydarians into the Confederacy of Independent Systems.
to establish supply lines to the Republic garrison and the
of the Trade Federation to prevent the Republic from doing so.
was considering joining the Republic and was going to speak with his former master Yoda on the neutral moon,
. He sent his apprentice, Ventress, to convince him to join the Separatists. Ventress was able to make a deal with Katuunko and Yoda; If Yoda and his three troopers defeated her droid battalion, the Toydarians would be allowed to join the Republic, but if her droids captured Yoda, Katuunko would join the Separatists. Dooku approved of her deal, believing that Yoda made a mistake in venturing far from Coruscant. However, Yoda was able to defeat her droids, and Katuunko told Dooku that he would be joining the Republic upon seeing Ventress' treachery. Dooku urged him to reconsider, but to no avail, and ordered Ventress to kill the king. However, Yoda prevented the murder, and Dooku watched as Ventress made her escape, telling Yoda that his old master was fortunate he was not there in person. Dooku was disappointed in his assassin and developed a grudge against Katuunko in light of the mission's failure.
In this war, a step ahead of us Dooku always seems.
Count Dooku and General Grievous oversaw the
as its ion weaponry was tested against an entire Republic fleet.
Dooku joined General Grievous aboard the heavy cruiser
entered the system, Dooku ordered Grievous to jam their communications and to use the cruiser's secret weapon, the
, to disable and destroy the fleet. Dooku sent out hunters to make sure there were no survivors, though he later learned that a group of survivors had destroyed the pod hunters. As Dooku, Grievous, and the
searched for the survivors, Skywalker arrived and found them first. Dooku ordered Grievous to destroy the rescue ship, but the effort failed.
After Grievous attacked a medical convoy near the
, Dooku gave the droid general his next target: the
. En route to the target, Dooku informed Grievous that the Republic had launched a strike team under Skywalker to attack the
, and warned him not to underestimate Skywalker.
s hyperdrive was disabled, Dooku arranged for Senator Amidala to be captured while en route to negotiations with the
was destroyed. Dooku attempted to contact Grievous for an update, but the general angrily cut communications while fleeing the scene of destruction.
There is no margin for error this time, child. You must prove yourself worthy of being my apprentice.
The Sith conspired to retrieve Nute Gunray, believing the Neimoidian would break under Jedi interrogation.
Viceroy Gunray was captured by the Republic, so Sidious informed his apprentice of the dangers of allowing him to be interrogated by the Jedi. Though Tyranus planned to send Ventress to either free or silence Gunray, Sidious questioned the dark-sider's competence after previous failures. Dooku gave Ventress her mission, but warned her that she would have to prove herself worthy of being his apprentice. He bribed Senate commando
into helping Ventress free Gunray, and the mission was ultimately a success.
General, the ongoing stalemate in the war has become unacceptable. There is concern you have lost your focus. Lord Sidious demands more dramatic results: more dead Jedi.
You expect victory over Jedi, but all you give me to fight them is battle droids. Bah!
Dooku allowed the Jedi to ambush Grievous, testing the cyborg warrior at the behest of his Sith Master.
Dooku, frustrated with the ongoing stalemate, arranged a test for General Grievous. He laid a trap for Jedi Master
. He deactivated Grievous' MagnaGuards and offered an "alternative prize" to Fisto during his pursuit of Gunray. After Grievous' first confrontation with the Jedi and the death of his pet
, Dooku contacted him telling him that he arranged for this test. Grievous then cut communications with Dooku to finish off the Jedi. Grievous later informed him of Fisto's escape, and the Count suggested there was room for improvement.
How a bunch of drunken pirates managed to catch Dooku when we couldn't.
Dooku was forced to work with the Jedi against the pirates who captured them for ransom.
Dooku captured Skywalker and took him aboard his command ship. Skywalker was rescued by Kenobi and the two of them confronted Dooku. Dooku made his escape to his solar sailor as the Republic forces arrived. Dooku was soon thereafter shot down by Skywalker and Kenobi and crash landed on
where he hid in a cave. He next caused a cave-in, forcing Skywalker to lose his lightsaber which Dooku took, and then sealed the cave off. Dooku found
at his solar sailor. Thereafter, Dooku approached the pirate's captain,
for a price. Dooku agreed to pay him while secretly planning to kill all the pirates upon their arrival on Florrum due to not trusting them. However before he could, Dooku's lightsabers were stolen from him by Hondo's
. Dooku warned them that they were not dealing with a Jedi, but a Sith Lord. However, he was outnumbered and ransomed off to the Republic by the pirates. Kenobi and Skywalker checked to ensure the pirates had actually captured him. Dooku warned the Jedi that the pirates were devious and that they would not allow them to leave.
Dooku was proven correct when he, Kenobi, and Skywalker were tied together. Thus, Dooku was forced to work with the Jedi to escape before the Republic arrived. During their 2nd escape attempt, Dooku was saved by Kenobi before they were captured by Hondo and his men. However, after Republic representative
and his escort disabled the power, Dooku made his escape by choking a guard. Dooku found
abandoning Hondo and heading to their shuttle. The Sith Lord choked Turk Falso with the Force, forcing him to kill Mentir with his own blaster before killing Falso as well. At that point, Dooku stole their shuttle and made his escape as Anakin and Obi-Wan were rescued by Jar Jar and Stone.
chronicling these events, however he chose to delete it rather than share with Sidious due to not wanting his master to know how he got kidnapped.
When Count Dooku sees how successful my weapon is against civilian targets, I will no doubt be promoted to a more, hmm,
Dooku approved of Lok Durd's plan to field-test the defoliator on civilian targets.
. After the initial success of the weapon tested on
and two battle droids, Dooku asked to the general to test the weapon on living targets. Durd assured him that he would test it on the
Your Tactical Droid has informed me of the pitiful job you have done protecting our investment on Ryloth.
Dooku ordered the Separatist forces to destroy the city of Lessu before evacuating Ryloth.
During the initial start of the Republic's return to Ryloth, Dooku assured Tambor that the Republic forces were spread thin in its sector and that it would be suicide for the Republic.
After the Republic landed and were moving on the capital of
of Tambor's pitiful job in protecting the Separatist's investment on Ryloth. Though Tambor claimed that the tactical droid was exaggerating, Dooku warned him that he was no match for Windu. Dooku then ordered Tambor to evacuate with what valuables he had and to destroy what was left. Dooku told Tambor that the charred ruins of Ryloth would demonstrate to the galaxy the cost of a Republic "victory." Dooku then contacted Tambor again, shocked that he had not left yet. Dooku then ordered him out before Windu and the Republic arrive. He then gave TA-175 orders to bomb the capital after they leave. After the Republic arrived and captured Tambor, Dooku ordered TA-175 to bomb the capital.
Dooku supported a regime change on Mandalore, favoring Pre Vizsla and his Death Watch organization.
investigation on Mandalore. Dooku assured him that if the Republic sends an occupation force to Mandalore, the people would rebel and join the Death Watch.
Dooku had Vizsla send one of his assassins to Coruscant to eliminate Duchess
from interfering with their plans. Unfortunately, the Duchess stopped their plans. Dooku warned Vizsla that without his forces, Death Watch would only hold the planet for a day. Dooku assured him that he had other ways of accomplishing their goals.
Following these events, Dooku betrayed the Death Watch.
Vizsla was left with a lightsaber scar on his face as a "parting gift" from Dooku but managed to escape, vowing vengeance on the Sith Lord.
After our attack, chances of peace will disappear.
War profiteers in the Galactic Senate secretly worked with Dooku to prolong the Clone Wars.
. However, Dooku had General Grievous carry out a
to ensure that Lord Sidious' plans continue unhindered. Dooku assured Republic senators Lott Dod,
that they would ensure that the banks would be deregulated and they would receive their profits.
to join the Separatists by sending the Trade Federation to
After the attack, Dooku sent a message saying that the Republic had killed the very sponsor of the peace initiative,
. In truth, Dooku had sent his agents to kill Bonteri. Dooku then sent bounty hunters
to intimidate Senators from voting against the
. Dooku then sent them to eliminate Senator Amidala.
I would hate to think you are training your own Sith apprentice to destroy me…"
"Never! My allegiance is to you and you alone."
―Darth Sidious and Darth Tyranus, on Asajj Ventress
Dooku disowned his apprentice, Asajj Ventress, when Sidious began to suspect her of harboring treacherous intentions.
Tyranus was then contacted by Lord Sidious about his assassin, Ventress, and how she was becoming powerful. Sidious believed that Tyranus was training his own apprentice and was planning to replace him. Tyranus assured Sidious that his loyalty was to him alone. To prove his loyalty, the Sith Lord was ordered to eliminate Ventress. Tyranus tried to convince Sidious not to do this, but he complied. Dooku then contacted Ventress at Sullust, informing her that he recalled her reinforcements. Ventress implored Dooku to help destroy the Jedi, but he told her that she was no longer his apprentice and that she would soon die. Dooku then contacted the tactical droid,
and ordered it to destroy Ventress aboard the flagship. TJ-912 carried out Dooku's orders and informed him that she was dead. Dooku ordered TJ-912 to withdraw. Tyranus then informed Sidious that Ventress had been destroyed, proving his loyalty to his master.
Dooku then came under attack by Ventress and her fellow Nightsisters posing as Jedi at his
on Serenno. Though his senses were dulled by their poison, Dooku was able to fight them off with his Sith lightning. The attempt on his life failed but Dooku never found out the identity of his attackers. Dooku was then contacted by Mother Talzin, who was aware of the loss of his prized assassin, who was of one of her Nightsisters. She then offered Dooku one male from her planet to replace her. Dooku took her up on her offer.
We could certainly use the power of the Nightsisters against the Jedi.
Such a generous offer, Count. But our loyalty is reserved for only each other. The only reason I am aiding in your search for a new assassin is because long ago, you chose to help
. After this matter is resolved, I hope our paths never cross again.
Dooku then traveled to Dathomir to speak with Talzin. Dooku proposed an alliance between his Separatists and her Nightsisters. Talzin refused his generous offer. Talzin then asked Dooku if knew the Sith warrior, Darth Maul. Dooku remembered that he was killed 10 years ago on Naboo by Kenobi. Talzin then offered one of her
, as his new assassin. Dooku, with the "loss" of Ventress and the Jedi attacks, agreed to her offer and left.
I foresee we will do great things together. I shall teach you the ways of the dark side. Soon, your powers will rival that of the great Sith Lord Darth Maul. We will be even more powerful than Lord Sidious. We shall rule the galaxy together, my apprentice.
Dooku found a new secret apprentice, Savage Opress.
, by Talzin on Serenno. Dooku was impressed by the Opress' sight and how Talzin described him as the fiercest of his kind, assuring him that Opress would serve Dooku well. Dooku then sent Opress on a
from the Republic. Dooku was then informed by Opress of his mission's success and returned to him on Serenno. Dooku then branded Savage his apprentice, encouraging him by noting that they could defeat Sidious together and rule the galaxy.
Dooku then trained Savage in lightsaber combat and his dark side powers. Dooku was a harsh taskmaster who tortured Opress with his Sith lightning. After Dooku's first training session with Opress, he sent him on a mission to Toydaria. Dooku told him to bring King Katuunko to him alive. However, Opress failed Dooku when he killed Katuunko and brought him aboard his flagship. Dooku then punished him with his Sith lightning. Ventress then revealed herself to be alive and Opress' true master. The two of them then fought Dooku, who initially proved indomitable by the two of them. However, Opress, empowered by rage, suddenly attacked both Dooku and Ventress- though they both pushed him back and then made their escape. Dooku was then confronted by Ventress but defeated her with ease. Just as he was about to kill her, Dooku was blinded and Ventress made her escape. Dooku then ordered his battle droids to kill Opress, but they failed to stop him from escaping.
's capture and imprisonment in a Separatist prison called the
on the planet Lola Sayu and figured out he had information on the Nexus Routes which could change the tide of the war. Because of this, Dooku pressured the sadistic warden of the Citadel and Separatist operative,
, to interrogate Piell and his men about the Nexus Routes. Later, a group of Jedi and clones led by Anakin, Ahsoka, and Obi-Wan infiltrated the Citadel frozen in carbonite, but their cover was blown when one of the clones accidentally triggered an electro-mine and was killed.
Despite his best efforts, the Jedi evaded Sobeck's traps and successfully rescued Piell and his head naval officer
and many others. Dooku was furious and contacted Sobeck and ordered him to recapture Piell and his naval officers and capture the rescue squad, but Sobeck assured him that everything was under control and ended the transmission and proceeded to prevent the Jedi from escaping with Piell by destroying a Separatist ship and killed a clone named Echo, who sacrificed himself to destroy the droids, but the Jedi and the surviving clones and naval officers fled to the caves below to contact the Republic for assistance. At the same time, Dooku attempted to contact Sobeck again, but Sobeck ignored him to cut off the Jedi's escape.
Eventually, Dooku was able to contact Sobeck, who informed the warden of the significance of the Jedi's capture, to which Sobeck swore to accomplish, but Dooku reminded him that Sobeck's promises to capture the Jedi were the only things that were keeping him alive. Although Sobeck sent Anoobas to track the Jedi and successfully killed Piell, Sobeck ultimately failed to stop the Jedi from escaping the Citadel with the Nexus Route information and was killed by Ahsoka and the Jedi, clones, and the naval officers escaped.
The whispering of his name can rekindle hope, and hope is something we cannot allow our enemy to possess.
―Count Dooku, to Riff Tamson, on Lee-Char
Riff Tamson led Dooku's droid forces at the Battle of Mon Cala.
's claim to the throne. Dooku dispatched Commander
as a Separatist observer to the Quarren on
. Dooku was assured that Chieftain Nossor Ri and his Quarren were with them. In return for supporting the Separatist cause, Dooku promised Tamson that Mon Cala would be his to rule. Under Dooku's orders, Mon Calamari captives from
After the Mon Calamari and Republic received
from Naboo, Dooku sent Tamson reinforcements, but ordered him to keep them in reserve. Dooku also ordered him to continue to hunt down Prince Lee-Char and reminded Nossor Ri that the Quarren had to support the war effort if they wanted Separatist support.
to secure the Separatists hold on the planet. Despite Dooku's best efforts, his plans to conquer Mon Cala collapsed after the Quarren switched sides after learning that Tamson planned to crown himself as the new ruler of Mon Cala. Together, the Quarren, Mon Calamari, Republic, Jedi, and Gungans managed to drive the Separatist from Mon Cala.
The Sith control everything. You just don't know it.
Dooku set a trap for Skywalker on Naboo, using himself as bait to lure the young Jedi Knight away from his forces.
Both the Trade Federation and the Separatist armies had longed to take control of Naboo
ever since their humiliating defeat at the Battle of Naboo.
This time, Count Dooku led the plan, with General Grievous at his side.
Dooku long coveted the planet Naboo because of its connection to Palpatine as the Republic's leader.
Dooku then formed an alliance with Gungan priest,
and the Gungans. Dooku promised Rish Loo that he would most influential in his new order. However, Rish Loo's plans were exposed by Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker, Senator Amidala, and Representative Binks freed Boss
from his mind-control. Dooku informed his master of General Grievous' capture by the Gungans. Dooku agreed to capture Skywalker in order to trade him for Grievous. Dooku had Rish Loo lure Skywalker to his
. Once there, Dooku killed Rish Loo for his foolishness. Dooku and his MagnaGuards fought Skywalker, eventually subduing him. Dooku then contacted Amidala, offering to exchange Skywalker for General Grievous. At first, Amidala refused, but agreed to it when Dooku's MagnaGuards started to torture Skywalker.
I see the queen has given you a long leash.
Skywalker confronted Dooku on the Zygerrian homeworld, and was subdued by a barrage of Force lightning.
, and his forces as they moved into "occupy" the Togruta colony of
, to be taken to a "safe haven." Dooku and Zygerrian Prime Minister
then contacted him as he negotiated with General Kenobi. Dooku then ordered D'Nar to bring Kenobi to him on his knees.
Dooku and half of Scintel's kingdom then demanded the Zygerrian Queen,
When she refused, Dooku was asked to come to Zygerria by Prime Minister Molec. Sidious sent Dooku to ensure that the Queen would carry out Skywalker's execution. Dooku then spoke with the Queen and the Prime Minister about Skywalker and his friends' situation. Dooku was intrigued by her plan to enslave the Jedi, but Dooku's plan was to eradicate the Jedi. He also warned her that her power over Skywalker was an illusion, since he was once a Jedi. When the queen refused to allow Dooku to execute Skywalker, Molec saw her as unworthy of being queen, in which Dooku then force-choked Scintel as Skywalker arrived. Dooku then fought Skywalker and ordered the Royal guard to kill Skywalker for the Queen's murder before he escaped. Dooku then contacted Keeper
Dooku later appeared through a hologram to
in which he denied killing Mina Bonteri and ordered him killed for treason.
Fighting off the entire Jedi security force would've been difficult. But now that they are gone, defeating you alone will be an easy task.
Skywalker's interference prevented Dooku from leaving Naboo with Supreme Chancellor Sheev Palpatine.
to carry out a kidnapping of Palpatine. Following Eval's escape with help from fellow bounty hunters
Dooku brought other bounty hunters to participate in this mission for him. He tested them by putting them inside the
. Dooku became impressed with Hardeen's performance, especially how he was able to kill Kenobi. Dooku then had Eval fight Hardeen till he lost. He then appointed Bane as leader of this team to carry out Palpatine's kidnapping.
On Naboo, Dooku listened to Bane's plans. However, he implanted a listening device in Hardeen's rifle case, revealing that he knew that Hardeen was Kenobi all along. The bounty hunter's mission was merely a diversion to distract the Republic troops, while Dooku carried out the kidnapping. However, his plan was foiled by Kenobi and Skywalker who managed to stop his plot before he escaped.
The time has come at last to take revenge on Asajj Ventress and the witch, Mother Talzin. I have learned Ventress has returned to Dathomir. Go there and wipe the witches out. All of them.
Dooku ordered Grievous to exterminate the Nightsisters of Dathomir while Mother Talzin tortured him through magick.
Remembering their treachery with Savage Opress, Dooku, at the behest of Darth Sidious, dispatched General Grievous to
Mother Talzin, Ventress, and the Nightsisters on Dathomir. However, Dooku was tortured by Talzin through her
, demanding he call off Grievous and his army. Dooku contacted Grievous, ordering him to find Talzin before she killed him. Dooku was saved when Grievous apparently "killed" Talzin in a secret chamber of the Nightsister village.
Following the Nightsister massacre, Dooku spoke with Grievous about Savage Opress. He feared that with Talzin gone, Savage would be a danger to him and his master, as he was becoming more powerful. Dooku also sensed something else coming; unknown to him, Darth Maul would soon return to the galactic stage with Opress at his side.
as he usurped the throne of Onderon from
to take command of the Separatist forces.
, Dooku ordered Kalani to withdraw what remained of the occupation force to
, much to Rash's disapproval, which ended with his death.
Hondo Ohnaka, we meet again. As I remember the last time we meet face to face I was your prisoner and you attempted to bargain me off to the highest bidder.
But can you blame me, I mean a Sith lord, what a handsome price you would of-"
Silence. You are going to pay the price for your treachery.
Dooku deployed Grievous against Hondo Ohnaka, the pirate who once held the Count as a prisoner for ransom.
Still having a score to settle with Hondo Ohnaka for holding him captive in the past, Dooku dispatched General Grievous to Florrum to seize and dismantle all of Ohnaka's possessions making them his own property. He then had Grievous take Ohnaka away to a prison cell. Ohnaka survived the assault but much of his base was left in ruins.
How many times must I tell you, Kenobi? Do not underestimate the power of the dark side!
Dooku tried to recruit Ravna to his cause, only to be betrayed by the Dark Lord.
According to a story told years later, Dooku traveled to the planet
and formed an agreement between himself and Ravna. Dooku hoped to use Ravna's ability to infect any living being into
to transform millions of clones and swiftly end the Clone War. When Jedi Masters Kenobi and Gallia arrived at the Citadel alongside the
, Dooku introduced the Jedi to Ravna and subdued Gallia with his Force lightning.
However, Dooku was ultimately betrayed by Ravna who sought to infect all beings in the galaxy and proceeded to transform Dooku. After destroying his super battle droid, Dooku stood by as Ravna's followers attempted to infect Kenobi and Gallia. However, Dooku gave into his anger when Kenobi insulted him and called him pathetic, causing Dooku to strike at Ravna with Force lightning. In the chaos of the fight, Dooku told Kenobi and Gallia to destroy Ravna and his followers, a resolution the Jedi saw to by using the Force to collapse the Citadel while Ravna was still inside, thereby burying the creature while Dooku escaped.
Our plan has gone undiscovered, Master. The clone in question is now dead, and the Jedi still suspect nothing.
Good. Destroy the evidence. When the time comes, no one will be able to stop our plan to execute Order 66.
As the clone army's benefactor, Tyranus was in secret contact with the Kaminoans during the Clone Wars.
in a trance-like state. Tyranus informed his master that Order 66 might be revealed. Thus Sidious ordered Tyranus to kidnap the clone and examine him. Dooku then ordered Trench to kidnap the clone. After the admiral succeeded in doing so, Dooku applauded him and ordered him to send the clone to him.
Following Trench's failed kidnapping, Dooku, going by Darth Tyranus, was contacted by Kaminoan Prime Minister Lama Su and Chief Medical Scientist Nala Se about the trooper. Tyranus asked for the inhibitor chip, reiterated his lie about the intention of the chip, and stated that Sifo-Dyas was the only one who knew about the chip prior to his death.
However, the inhibitor chip was then stolen by the renegade trooper
aka "Fives". Tyranus made it clear that the Jedi must not learn this.
Following the death of the renegade trooper, Tyranus was then given both chips by his master and was ordered to destroy them.
Lord Tyranus, the Republic fleet will be arriving shortly.
Very good, my Lord. Clovis has blindly played his part. It now appears he coordinated the entire Separatist takeover.
And because of this treachery, the banks will be firmly placed under the control of the Supreme Chancellor.
Dooku engineered the rise and fall of Senator Rush Clovis as head of the InterGalactic Banking Clan.
Sometime later, Dooku was contacted by Sidious and was ordered by his master to once again recruit Senator Rush Clovis and name him the new head of the Banking Clan. Dooku then contacted Clovis via the medical droid treating him. Dooku offered to pay the Confederacy's interest on their loans as well as supply Clovis details of the Muuns' secret accounts, in exchange for him becoming head of the Banking Clan.
, Dooku contacted him to congratulate on his appointment. Dooku then announced that he wished to collect on his "investment" or he will reveal the truth behind's Clovis' appointment. He also threatened that the Confederacy would not pay back their loans. Thus Dooku forced Clovis to raise the Republic's interest rates to keep the bank afloat. Dooku then arrived at Scipio, accompanied by the Confederate fleet and ordered his super tactical droid,
, to begin the invasion. Soon after, Dooku arrived on the planet and went to Clovis' office. There, Dooku informed Amidala of the deal he made with Clovis. Dooku ordered her arrest, but
, said that their Senate would not approve of this. Dooku then forced Amidala to shoot Lawise.
Tyranus was then informed by Sidious that the Republic fleet would be arriving shortly. Soon after, Republic ships led by
began attacking Kraken's fleet. Arriving onboard Kraken's flagship, Dooku ordered Kraken to withdraw their forces from Scipio. Kraken protested and claimed that there were droid forces still on the planet. Dooku dismissed Kraken's concerns and ordered the droid to withdraw. Kraken obeyed and retreated along with the Confederate fleet, abandoning the droid forces on the planet.
You are part of the Separatist movement, currently at war with the Republic and Loyalist systems. Your duke has constructed a base and is shipping materials and equipment to it. Because he didn't want anyone to know where the base is, he gathered his supplies from various origination points and sent them to Batuu, where the inhabitants don't pry into others' activities. But he didn't expect interference from thieves.
Skywalker, Thrawn, and Amidala (pictured from left to right) teamed up in an attempt to defeat Solha.
after the count learnt of the existence of
that powered down lightsabers and deflected blaster bolts. Dooku had Solha take over a
on Mokivj and transform it into a droid factory, where the duke and his
of B2 super battle droid equipped with cortosis armor. The factory also constructed clone trooper armor covered with cortosis, which Sidious wanted to use when Order 66 was executed.
"Thrawn," and Skywalker discovered the factory and
it. During the attack, Amidala talked with Solha, telling him that she thought that Serennian custom permitted a prisoner one last request; the duke claimed Dooku was still working out the details. Ultimately, the attackers destroyed the factory.
Tyranus? You are the man called Tyranus?
I told you everything you needed to know on Geonosis all those years ago, Kenobi. You should've joined me. Sifo Dyas understood, he saw the future, that is why he helped me.
Tyranus was chastened by Sidious, who warned his apprentice to beware the price of failure for a Sith.
After meeting with Yoda to discuss Sifo-Dyas, Darth Sidious alerted his apprentice. Darth Tyranus was told about the Jedi's renewed investigation into Sifo-Dyas and his death, choking Tyranus as a price for his clumsiness. Sidious sent Tyranus to
to make sure the Jedi did not learn the truth about the
Army and their eventual fates. When Tyranus arrived on the planet, he went towards the former chancellor
's aid, Silman, and killed him before the Jedi sent to Oba Diah—Skywalker and Kenobi—could unravel the mystery. Due to his actions on Oba Diah, the Pykes cornered Tyranus while he fought Skywalker and Kenobi. As the Pykes spoke to the Sith, they unknowingly revealed to the Jedi that Dooku and the identity of "Tyranus" were the same person.
The Pykes and Jedi then formed an alliance to kill Tyranus, which ended with the Sith Lord killing Lom Pyke. Dooku quickly attempted to make his escape, via a
docked in the Oba Diah port, but Obi-Wan pushed Anakin toward Dooku, and the two fought on the vessel. Nevertheless, Dooku defeated Skywalker and made his escape, having succeeded in stopping the Jedi from learning the truth of the Clone Army. However, the news that Tyranus—a man they knew had hired Jango Fett—was actually Dooku disturbed the Jedi, as it showcased that their enemy had made them an army.
We have failed to break Master Yoda. He is strong. We will need more time if we are to defeat him and the Jedi.
Sidious attacked Yoda through the Force, utilizing the bond that once existed between Tyranus and his old Master.
Dooku was then informed by Kraken that Lord Sidious demanded his presence on Coruscant. Arriving on Coruscant in the Works, he was greeted by Sidious, who then led him to the tower's ceremonial chamber. Both he and Lord Sidious felt that
for some unknown reason. Tyranus then allowed Sidious to use his blood to create an
for Yoda due to him being his former master with both using their Sith lightning. In the ritual, Dooku and Sidious were confronted by Yoda, Anakin Skywalker, Captain Rex, and a squad of clone troopers who were tasked with eliminating the Sith. Dooku attacked the clones with Force lightning and dueled with Skywalker and was eventually killed by him. At the end of the ritual, they had failed in breaking Yoda and knew they needed more time to defeat him and the Jedi.
Grievous fought with Obi-Wan Kenobi while attempting to secure a large kyber crystal on Utapau.
Towards the end of the Clone Wars, Count Dooku and General Grievous took interest in a massive
outcasts to excavate the crystal and to guard it respectively. Dooku and Grievous were also aided by
, who had secret contacts with Endente. When the Jedi Master
stumbled upon their operation, the Separatists sent two IG-100 MagnaGuards to assassinate her. However, her death attracted the attention of Master Kenobi and the Jedi Knight Skywalker, who
Investigating Tu-Anh's death and the presence of MagnaGuards, Kenobi and Skywalker traveled to the plains of Utapau to investigate a group of Amani outcasts. While traveling through Utapau's wilderness, the two Jedi were captured by several Sugi mercenaries who brought them to Endente, who informed them about the Confederacy's interest in the kyber crystal. When the Jedi offered to buy the crystal for twice the amount, Endente informed Dooku via
about the Jedi and demanded more compensation to offset the Jedi offer. Dooku ordered him to kill the Jedi and promised that he would send Grievous to "give him what he deserved." Later, the two Jedi managed to overpower their captors and steal the crystal.
The actions of the Jedi, Kenobi and Skywalker, prevented Dooku from gaining possession of the kyber crystal.
As Endente and his Sugi comrades prepared for a counter-assault to recover the kyber crystal, they were contacted by Dooku who informed him that Grievous was coming to meet them on the plains of Utapau. Fearful of reporting his failure to the Sith, Endente told Dooku to send Grievous to meet them at Pau City instead on the pretext that the Amani could no longer be relied upon to guard the crystal. Endente informed the Sith Lord that they had a friend in the Utapau government, Governor Blom. Despite their efforts, Endente and his forces failed to recover the crystal from the Jedi, who made their way to Pau City's
Grievous eventually learned of Endente's failure and executed the Sugi mercenary. After a struggle, Grievous, with the help of Governor Blom, managed to recover the crystal from the Jedi and loaded it onto his shuttle.
Grievous managed to load the crystal onto his
. The Jedi followed him aboard, but Grievous managed to capture Kenobi. Following Kenobi's capture, Grievous gave a report to Dooku, who ordered him to execute Master Kenobi and to deliver the crystal urgently to Serenno; stressing that he would tolerate no failure. Despite Grievous' efforts, the two Jedi managed to destroy the crystal and Grievous' fleet. Grievous alone escaped to report the failure to his master.
Vos is a Dark Lord, as I am, and he knows better than to turn against his kind.
Oh, yes. He has sworn allegiance to the dark side. He and I will take down Lord Sidious once and for all, and rule the galaxy together. Hopefully, you'll have been disposed of by then.
Jedi Master Quinlan Vos and Asajj Ventress plotted to assassinate Count Dooku.
During the waning days of the Clone Wars, Count Dooku commanded an
species. In addition, Dooku also issued orders that all Mahran be killed on sight. Dooku's assault was witnessed by the Jedi Council on Coruscant, who at the suggestion of Master Obi-Wan hatched an unusual plan partnering maverick Jedi Master
with the Nightsister bounty hunter and Dooku's former apprentice Asajj Ventress. After partnering with Ventress as a bounty hunter, Vos eventually revealed his true identity. Seeking revenge against Dooku for his actions against her and her people, Ventress agreed to help Vos by training him in the ways of the dark side.
After Vos completed his training, Ventress received word from the Separatist contact
that Dooku was going to visit Raxus Secundus, where he was due to receive the
for his services to the Confederacy. For that trip, Dooku was accompanied by his military commander General Grievous. Before receiving the award, Dooku gave a patriotic speech to a large crowd defending the Separatist cause and attacking the Republic and the Jedi. During the public banquet, Asajj took the opportunity to meet up with Dooku and challenge him to a duel at the overlook nearby. Dooku agreed but secretly contacted Grievous for reinforcements. However, Vos anticipated this and, although being overpowered by the cyborg, managed to lock Grievous in a room.
Dooku at the overlook. After exchanging pleasantries over a glass of
, Dooku engaged the assassins in a lightsaber duel. Using his mastery of the dark side, Dooku overpowered the two assassins and used the Force to hurl them against some nearby pillars. Despite Vos' best efforts, he was unable to best Dooku and was taken captive by the Sith Lord. Ventress managed to escape following a scuffle with Grievous but was unable to rescue her lover Vos. Dooku then struck Vos unconscious with Force lightning and spirited his Jedi captive away to the
Vos was captured and taken to Dooku's castle on Serenno, where the Jedi was turned to the dark side of the Force.
Quinlan Vos for a prolonged period. To sow discord between Vos and Ventress, he showed the Jedi Master a hologram of Ventress
. When Vos initially refused to believe Dooku's account, the Sith Lord presented Vos with Tholme's lightsaber. Using his
abilities, Vos realized that Dooku was telling the truth. Shortly later, Ventress and Boba Fett's
to rescue Vos. However, they were forced to flee empty-handed after Vos, who had given in to the dark side, attacked Ventress. Following the attack, Vos became Dooku's new Sith apprentice. Despite turning to the dark side, Vos secretly planned to force Dooku to lead him to his master, Darth Sidious, and then kill the two Sith Lords.
I left you here to make you an offer. While Grievous is a creature of limited scope, you see much more. You abandoned the Jedi when you understood the Sith were gaining power. Now I suggest you abandon Sidious and serve me.
Dooku was taken prisoner by Maul, Sidious' first apprentice.
Dooku assisted his master in interrogating his former apprentice Maul about his
. Dooku then dispatched General Grievous and
and cripple Maul and his forces. Dooku then contacted Grievous after Maul's forces retreated. Dooku hoped this attack would draw Talzin out.
Dooku, accompanied by a pair of MagnaGuards, then went to
Maul and level the city. Dooku was then confronted by Brother
and the Nightbrothers. Dooku was easily able to defeat the Viscus and his men. However, Dooku was then surrounded by Maul's forces before he had the chance to kill the defeated Viscus.
Dooku killed Jedi General Tiplee while fighting alongside Maul.
Dooku was offered a deal by Maul; to abandon Sidious and serve Maul. Dooku refused, knowing that Sidious was more powerful than they realized. Maul told him that together with Talzin, they would be Sidious' undoing. Dooku then spoke with Talzin, warning that betraying Sidious would be a folly. Talzin told him that Sidious was ready to replace him with a new apprentice. She then revealed to Dooku how Sidious came to her promising to make her his right hand but betrayed her when he took Maul. She also revealed that Maul was her son. When the Republic forces boarded their ship, Dooku decided to assist Maul in killing the Jedi, but not before secretly freeing Grievous. Together they
, Obi-Wan Kenobi, and Tiplee. Dooku then killed Tiplee and then escaped with Maul and Commanders
Dooku was then taken to Dathomir by Maul. There, he was taken to a chamber in the Nightbrother village to have his life-force taken from him to allow Talzin to regain her form. Dooku was then possessed by Talzin when Grievous and Sidious suddenly arrived. After a brief clash with Sidious, Talzin released Dooku's body and appeared in physical form again. Dooku then assisted his master in fighting Talzin and Maul, eventually overpowering them. Maul ended up escaping, and Talzin was killed by Grievous. Despite Maul's escape, Sidious assured Dooku that their future was certain.
Rescue of Quinlan Vos and the end of Ventress
Soon enough, you will stop denying the truth of so very many things. And you will understand that I am not a traitor, but a visionary! Fear leads to anger, anger leads to hate, hatred leads to suffering. But what the Jedi failed to teach you, what I have learned, is how to persevere, to pass
the suffering, and achieve ultimate power!
Dooku killed Ventress and tried to use her death to push Vos fully to the dark side.
Dooku and his new right-hand man, Quinlan Vos, launched a renewed military campaign against the Republic. Vos quickly gained the moniker "
Enigma" among the Republic media. After receiving intelligence from Admiral
that Dooku was planning to attack the planet
Quinlan Vos. With the help of Ventress, Kenobi and his former apprentice Anakin Skywalker infiltrated Dooku's
, hoping to encounter "Admiral Enigma." Instead, they encountered Dooku. While Skywalker dueled with Dooku, Ventress and Kenobi managed to "rescue" Vos from his cell. However, Vos and Dooku had anticipated the rescue and arranged for Vos to appear in an emaciated state. While Ventress sensed that Vos had turned to the dark side, his Jedi colleagues eagerly welcomed Vos home.
Quinlan Vos' "rescue" gave Count Dooku a high-level spy within the Jedi Order. Using his high-placed position within the Jedi hierarchy, Vos leaked intelligence on two Republic operations to Dooku. This allowed the Separatists to sabotage an asteroid supplies warehouse and to evacuate a
. After discerning that Vos had turned to the dark side, the Jedi Council sent Vos on a mission to kill Dooku. With the help of Ventress, Vos and the Jedi learned that Dooku's dreadnought was last sighted above the crystal-covered planet of Christophsis. Vos managed to infiltrate Dooku's dreadnought and engaged the Sith Lord in a lightsaber duel. Despite besting Dooku, Vos refused to kill him and instead demanded that Dooku lead him to Darth Sidious.
Unknown to both Dooku and Vos, they had been tailed by Kenobi and Skywalker. The two Jedi Knights promptly arrested Dooku and his apprentice and transported them to the
as prisoners. While being marched to the
brig, Vos managed to free Dooku, who in turned freed Vos. After killing the Jedi Knights
and two dozen Clone troopers, the two dark siders escaped the
. Ventress attempted to fly them back to Dooku's dreadnought but they were shot down by the
Ventress' sacrifice undermined Dooku's plans for Vos, who reclaimed his status as a Jedi.
Dooku and his fellow travelers survived the crash but the Count sustained a serious injury since he had not been properly strapped in. After navigating through Christophsis' crystal-covered landscape, they managed to reach a local
that was built into a giant crystal tower. Upon arriving, Dooku was informed that Darth Sidious was seeking an audience with him. During a brief hologram conversation, Dooku requested help from his master to get offworld. Shortly later, Kenobi and Skywalker launched a
Together, Dooku and his opponents made their way into an outlying crystal sanctum. On the way, Dooku was struck by a blaster blast and was knocked unconscious. While Ventress wanted to let him die, Vos insisted on keeping him alive. While Vos assisted the battle droids in the defense of the base, Ventress moved Dooku into the crystal sanctum. After stirring, Dooku taunted Ventress by deriding her as a "grant" and claiming that Vos had much potential as a Sith Lord. Ventress responded that Vos had "bigger plans" for Dooku. When Vos entered the sanctum, Ventress confronted him about his decision to join Dooku and the dark side.
While Ventress and Vos were preoccupied, Dooku took the opportunity to attack his former pupils with Force lightning. He wanted to kill Vos, but ended up striking Ventress, who pushed Vos out of the way. Though Quinlan managed to stop Dooku,
mortally wounded. Dooku then attempted to goad Vos into killing him, but realizing that the act of murder led to the dark side, Vos refused and reaffirmed his Jedi identity. While Vos comforted his lover, Dooku took the opportunity to rendezvous with Sidious' starship and fled off-world
Despite failing to kill Dooku, Vos was pardoned by the Jedi Council after he rejected the dark side and continued serving the Jedi war effort.
. Before making a tactical withdrawal, he was able to accomplish the near impossible
At one point, Dooku fought Skywalker again on
, but the Jedi failed to defeat the Count.
in general, interested Grievous and the Separatists. Kachirho was simple to defend while also being an excellent landing strip for droids, as well as being home to the
Archives, which contained many unknown space roads.
After growing weary of waiting for a decision that would benefit him, Grievous ordered to plan a large-scale attack in hopes that the threat would "persuade" the Wookiees to accept their conditions.
The decision, however, turned out to be a dire mistake for the Confederacy,
and the Wookiees responded angrily, declaring an all-out war on the forces threatening to attack them.
You did well, Anakin. He was too dangerous to be kept alive.
Yes, but he was an unarmed prisoner. I shouldn't have done that. It's not the Jedi way.
It is only natural. He cut off your arm, and you wanted revenge.
―Sheev Palpatine and Anakin Skywalker, on Count Dooku's death
Later, Dooku became a part of Sidious' plan to capture Palpatine during the Battle of Coruscant. However, Dooku was unaware that Sidious' true intentions were for Anakin to kill him and replace him as Sidious' apprentice, as Sidious felt it was time for Anakin to be his apprentice, as well as that Dooku no longer served a purpose.
Dooku then informed Grievous of the impending news
that the CIS had a chance of recovery and victory.
Grievous' fleet was able to leap directly from the Outer Rim to Coruscant thanks to Darth Sidious, who had obtained the coordinates
and provided them a plan to kidnap the Supreme Chancellor of the Republic. Earlier, Dooku had relocated his command post to Grievous' flagship, the
. This allowed him to stay close to Grievous and ensure that his orders were followed. Sidious wanted to avoid any setbacks in his plans, despite the cyborg general posing no threat to him.
Dooku was disarmed and executed by Skywalker during the Battle of Coruscant.
Count Dooku held Chancellor Palpatine captive aboard General Grievous' flagship, the
, after the Kaleesh General abducted him
After completing this mission successfully, Dooku ordered Grievous to remain in orbit and attack the Republic fleet in close combat.
He proclaimed to a stunned galaxy that the Republic leader was his hostage.
When Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi made their way to the bridge where the Chancellor was being held in an attempt to rescue him, Dooku arrived and confronted the two Jedi, flanked by two super battle droids, demanding the Jedi to surrender their sabers. He then engaged them in a brief, but fierce lightsaber duel.
During the duel, Dooku defeated Kenobi, who was incapacitated and knocked unconscious when the Count used the Force to pin Kenobi to the ground with a metal balcony. He then took the opportunity to mock and goad Skywalker, saying that the young Jedi knight had great fear, hate and anger in him, but was refusing to use them. However, Dooku was soon overpowered by an angered Skywalker, who, with one slash of his lightsaber, severed both the Count's hands at the wrists. Skywalker then caught Dooku's lightsaber out of the air and crossed it with his own blade at the Count's throat. Palpatine praised Anakin, but then betrayed Dooku by telling Anakin to kill him. Shocked and horrified by his master's command, he looked at Sidious, only to be met with a sinister smile from his master. Dooku finally understood that he had been tool of Sidious from the start to be inevitably replaced just as Maul and the late Mother Talzin had warned him. Despite realizing he had been duped by Sidious, he remained silent. Skywalker was initially hesitant to kill Dooku because killing an unarmed prisoner was not the Jedi way. However, when Palpatine ordered Skywalker to kill Dooku, he pulled the two lightsabers apart, decapitating the leader of the Confederacy.
At the time I thought Dooku was an old fool. But now, now I see he and I are the same. One step behind. The dark side has never been stronger.
―Maul after learning about Dooku's death
Grievous was confident in his combat skills, having learned the Jedi art of lightsaber combat from the late Count Dooku.
After Dooku's corpse fell to the ground, Anakin almost immediately expressed regret over his un-Jedi-like action, but Palpatine assured and congratulated Anakin, stating that Dooku was too dangerous to be kept alive. Palpatine further told Anakin that Dooku severed his arm and he wanted revenge, much as he had with the loss of his mother to the
After Dooku had led the Republic into Grievous' home on Vassek,
it was a treachery that the cyborg was not likely to forgive.
With Dooku dead, Grievous succeeded him as Head of State,
and while he had always been in charge of the droid army,
he had complete control over Separatist forces
as both the military and political head.
He still remained subservient to Sidious and was now ordered to return to Utapau
and safeguard the safety of the increasingly irrelevant
. The general asked Sidious if Dooku's death had an affect on the coming conclusion,
assuring Grievous that his death was a necessary loss and that he would soon have a new, younger, and more powerful apprentice.
In addition, Sidious advised him to stay on Utapau until the new apprentice had joined their cause, as he didn't want to waste any time before finding a successor.
With Dooku's death by Anakin's hand, the Jedi were deprived of a crucial link to unraveling the mystery of Darth Sidious, as there was no longer any possibility of learning more via Dooku, and Ahsoka's quest to capture Maul was thought to be the next option.
Grievous and the Separatist council were then betrayed by Sidious, as he had been.
Sidious baited Grievous to lure Kenobi's attention away from Coruscant and Anakin, as his plans progressed.
Dooku's recent death took on a new feeling of urgency to the task of capturing
Grievous that had previously been tried.
After Obi-Wan Kenobi revealed himself, the overconfident cyborg boasted that he had been trained in the Jedi art by the late Count Dooku,
but that did not mean he regretted the count's death,
and then he engaged with Kenobi for the final time, as the
on Utapau. As Confederate Head of State and commander of the droid army, Gunray took over from Grievous
and believed that, with both Separatist leaders dead, the war was in his favor
Anakin's betrayal of Windu and fall to the dark side.
Not long after, Skywalker replaced Dooku at Sidious' side after he
to the dark side and became Darth Vader. In the
on Mustafar, Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker
. During the duel with his former apprentice,
feeling his former friend's focused hatred was horrifying, as Kenobi had felt it from Dooku, Maul, Opress, and Ventress.
Sidious then issued order 66, causing the biochips that Tyranus had implanted in the Clones' brains, to activate and brainwash them into turning on the Jedi, ultimately leading to the defeat and
, Dooku's Sith predecessor Maul confessed to his followers that he had originally viewed the Count as nothing more than an old fool. In the wake of Sidious' grand plan coming to fruition, however, Maul mused that Dooku and himself were the same, pawns of their master who were always one step behind after the renegade Sith Lord learnt about his successor's death.
Dooku was right in the end. He knew the Republic was corrupt, that it would collapse and become something worse. He saw it coming. The Galactic Empire.
Dooku's castle was left abandoned and plundered during the Imperial Era.
Dooku's homeworld of Serenno and led an effort at the Count's castle to seize the contents of a
containing valuables and artifacts, at least some of which Dooku had pilfered from his own people. The renegade
attempted to secure the cache themselves, but were fended off by the Empire.
Despite his crimes, Dooku's ideals continued to inspire
. Recognizing the Empire as nothing more than a worse version of the corrupt Republic Dooku had spoke of, she refused to submit and fought for her planet's independence. Her efforts ended in death at the hands of a
conducted loyalty purges, during which much Separatist
material featuring Dooku was destroyed. However, rare specimens of
Speculation began to circulate after the war's end that Dooku had in fact never left the Jedi Order despite their claims to the contrary.
Indeed, Palpatine claimed that the Jedi Order had been behind the crises of the late Republic Era,
such as the emergence of the Separatist Alliance; Mas Amedda would claim in a
celebration marking the eradication of the Jedi Order
that the "Separatist plots" that had rocked the Republic had been devised by the Jedi as part of their coup.
This rumor bolstered the idea that the Jedi had been traitors to the Republic since before the start of the war, but some, amongst them Governor Tarkin, remained skeptical.
With his Sith persona a secret to the galaxy at large, Dooku's public words and the ideal expressed by his Confederacy persisted for years to come in the form of Separatist Holdouts.
Dooku was mentioned in the display for the Clone Wars in the
saw the display, shortly after discovering her parents involvement with the growing rebellion, while visiting the museum with the rest of the
. The docent of the Emperor's Museum claimed that although Dooku acted out of "craven ambition" with no regard to the lives lost, he was correct about how the Republic had become rotten at its core and no longer governed by law, order and discipline.
In later years, Sidious likened Tyranus to a
, as he served his purpose and then was gone, assuring Vader that he had him, a superior candidate, in mind.
, Sidious appreciated that he was a simple boy who did not look like an "old wizard" just as Tyranus.
, who was trained in the arts of Sith combat by one of Darth Sidious' apprentices, Sidious knew Tyranus was not behind her training as Qi'ra did not have a royal background. Instead, he quickly realized Maul had been behind her training.
, after Darth Vader's son Luke Skywalker defeated Vader out of anger and hate for threatening his sister
. Luke cut off the same hand Vader lost a long time ago when he faced Count Dooku as Anakin Skywalker before repeating the same fate. Emperor Palpatine ordered Luke to take his father's place by executing him, thereby betraying Vader much like how he betrayed Dooku when he had him executed by Anakin. Vader now realizes that he, Dooku and Maul were just pawns of Sidious, who used them to gain power for himself. However, Vader would reform back to Anakin Skywalker one last time when he destroys Palpatine to save his son from being tortured, while also avenging the death of his former nemesis.
Separatist is a pejorative term. I support democracy. Count Dooku was a visionary. He was cut short in his prime by the Jedi enforcer—
Skywalker succeeded Darth Tyranus as Sidious' apprentice, becoming the Sith Lord Darth Vader, and enforced the Galactic Empire they forged.
of the Galactic Empire, Jedi Master Luke Skywalker traveled the galaxy to rediscover the history of the Jedi Order that had been suppressed by the Empire.
In his search for knowledge, Skywalker became aware of Dooku. During his self-imposed exile on
, which chronicled the information he had learnt on his travels. In the book, Skywalker included an illustration depicting Dooku along with information pertaining to the Sith Lord. Skywalker wrote about Dooku's reasoning for leaving the Jedi Order as well as his instrumental role in Sidious' conspiracy. Skywalker described Dooku's death at the hands of his father as an execution in cold blood.
, a former Separatist supporter, decided to employ a tempered batch of
to reset all reprogrammed battle droids now serving Plazir-15's population back into their attack mode to kill the planet's population. When confronted by
, Helgait cited Dooku as a "visionary" who was cut short in his prime by the Jedi.
after Dooku's death, a treasure hunt known as the
. Those taking part hoped to find kyber crystals, but were surprised to find the treasure was a clone trooper who had been held captive for the last 50 years. The trooper,
, had learned the truth of Order 66 after being confronted about it by his fellow clone trooper friend Fives. Kix was saved by the
, a survival guide written by Hondo Ohnaka and
Dooku's Sith loyalties were discovered in the records of the
, which was the location of Sidious's ultimate defeat in the
and a site of interest to historians under the
. With the recovered information revealing Dooku's hidden nature as Darth Tyranus, historian
published the information to the wider galaxy as part of his book
The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
I sense great fear in you, Skywalker. You have hate. You have anger. But you don't
Dooku was a charismatic statesman deft at manipulation and deception.
In his younger years, his hair was black.
, and favored technique over brute strength in lightsaber combat.
and, during the Separatist Crisis, he was viewed as a "political idealist" by his former peers.
During his time in the Order, Dooku chafed at the Jedi's disdain for technology.
After meeting her, Dooku secretly kept in contact with his sister Jenza and grew close to her.
His independent spirit helped push him away from the Jedi Order.
By the time he was a Sith, Dooku had come to believe the Jedi had wasted their powers but that he had not squandered his own.
Dooku became increasingly disillusioned with the Galactic Senate's corruption and the arrogance and apparent complacency of the Jedi Order, eventually coming to desire the downfall of both institutions he had once served.
Increasingly, Dooku became, in the words of his sister Jenza, corrupted as he gave into the dark side;
the man who once justified his actions as being in the name of overthrowing a corrupt Senate
—and becoming obsessed with growing his own power. While he was beloved by the Separatist population
as a visionary and defender of democracy,
After Sidious exploited Dooku's anger at the Republic to turn the count to the dark side,
Dooku—having become the Sith Lord Darth Tyranus—was a menacing, intelligent, powerful, manipulative, arrogant, and amoral, yet charismatic statesman with a refined and educated character befitting an aristocrat of the last years of the
in public, he maintained the image of a humanitarian leader who truly wanted what was best for the Confederacy, while in secret he looked for greater power as a Sith
and was willing to advance his plans with methods that included torture,
Because the Order served the Republic, Dooku believed the Jedi were dishonored and were not to be trusted.
Dooku also protested the failure of the Republic, bringing numerous systems to the Confederacy, yet his true motives remained hidden. The Count truly wanted to rule a new Sith Empire at the side of Darth Sidious,
whom he believed would bring order back to the galaxy.
Dooku obediently served Sidious while dreaming of taking his Master's place as the reigning Dark Lord of the Sith.
Despite her pleas for him to return to the light, Dooku was so committed to the dark side that he even had his own sister, Jenza, killed.
Still, at least early in the war, Dooku's former master Yoda believed he could return Dooku to the light side if given the chance.
Dooku was skilled at recruiting allies to his side, not only using his wealth, but also his natural charm and intense gravitas.
Nevertheless, he was willing to betray his own followers and allies, such as Asajj Ventress and Pre Vizsla,
though he showed some regret over abandoning Ventress, angering his own master, Darth Sidious.
He even betrayed and orchestrated the death of his former friend Sifo-Dyas. Dooku was very vindictive, as shown when he ordered devastating attacks against Mother Talzin and Hondo Ohnaka for crossing him in the past.
Dooku was also quite fearless, and was willing to sacrifice himself in a final attempt to fully convert his last apprentice, Quinlan Vos, to the dark side by tempting Vos to strike him down after he mortally wounded Vos' lover, Ventress.
Dooku initially felt remorse for betraying the Jedi and confronted Sidious in the wake of Qui-Gon Jinn's death. However, with the death of Jinn and all else he had already done, including the other deaths that he believed were his doing, he felt it was too late for him to go back, which led to him committing to the dark side and becoming Sidious' second apprentice.
Further into his career as a Sith, despite his hatred toward the Jedi, he did still express fondness towards Qui-Gon. During his conversation with his Padawan's Padawan, Obi-Wan Kenobi, on Geonosis ten years after Qui-Gon's death, Dooku expressed some sadness over his Padawan's death.
During a conversation via hologram concerning a
, in which Dooku was working to stonewall Kenobi's effort to clear the Republic's name in the
, Kenobi invoked Jinn's name and asked the count if he had trusted his old apprentice, which Kenobi deemed to be a targeted counterattack to Dooku's own efforts. Reference to Jinn, indeed, created a minor but still present shift in Dooku's expression, which softened before Dooku could partially correct himself. Dooku responded that Jinn had been an honorable man and—when Kenobi pressed his attack, declaring he carried on the fallen master's teachings and, thus, was trustworthy—agreed to Kenobi's terms, albeit with two caveats of his own.
On Geonosis, Dooku also attempted to recruit Kenobi to his cause. The Separatist leader wished to persuade Kenobi to join him, and to that end, he revealed that the Republic was controlled by a Sith named Darth Sidious, although Kenobi refused to believe the duplicitous Dooku. Dooku was actually polite to Obi-Wan when he interrogated him as he did not act hostile in anyway. When Kenobi refused to join the treaty, Dooku had no problem with attempting to kill him.
Dooku had intended for his claim on Geonosis to be too outrageous for Kenobi to believe, even though it was true, meaning he had fulfilled his plan.
During the ensuing Clone Wars, Dooku would often tell Jedi he encountered that he was hunting the Sith Lord
yet the Jedi nevertheless saw that the Count used Sith powers.
Indeed, the Jedi Order was aware of his true nature as a Sith Lord during the war.
While he was obedient to Sidious, he desired to eventually overthrow him and become the Sith master himself. Dooku was willing to betray Sidious for power; towards the end of the Clone Wars, he conspired with
to attempt to overthrow Sidious. He had the same plans with Ventress
The Jedi Order taught that fear ultimately gave way to the dark side and, with it, suffering; Dooku fully admitted he had endured all the stages of the journey the Jedi had warned him of—fear, anger, hate, and suffering—during his path into the dark side. However, he insisted he had passed through that suffering and reached a state he defined as holding "ultimate power."
Dooku also believed that the dark side was far more generous than the light.
In his final moments, Dooku realized he was a pawn to his master
However, he was unaware that he was just a pawn of Sidious, who was using him until it was time for Sidious to discard and replace him. He saw himself as Sidious' apprentice, but was unaware that Sidious never saw him that way and instead, viewed him as a pawn he could use until his purpose was served. While he desired to overthrow Sidious, he was unaware that Sidious similarly planned on having him replaced with Anakin. Dooku's obliviousness to his time running out and Sidious' true motives, led to his undoing. When Sidious instructed Anakin to kill a disarmed and beaten Dooku, Dooku was in a state of disbelief.
At that point, Dooku gained some new understandings of what had transpired;
he had been used and was now being betrayed by his own secret master, and that betrayal was the Sith way.
Powerful you have become, Dooku. The dark side I sense in you.
I have become more powerful than any Jedi. Even you.
Dooku was a powerful Force wielder and a master lightsaber duelist.
A man of formidable power that was exemplified by his Sith name of Tyranus,
Dooku was a highly skillful lightsaber duelist even in his old age. During his time as a Jedi, he was known as one of the Order's finest swordsmen; it was said that Yoda was his only superior and Mace Windu was his only equal. On Geonosis, Dooku was able to easily defeat both Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker one immediately after the other, and then go on to fight Yoda himself. Dooku was able to contend with Yoda but elected to retreat when he was unable to defeat his former master.
He would often prove to be equal and even superior to Skywalker and Kenobi even as their skill grew during the Clone Wars,
dueling Skywalker on several occasions, proving to be his superior
until Skywalker was powerful enough to overcome the Count.
had ever seen, Dooku was a practitioner of the second form of lightsaber combat,
. Makashi was designed specifically for lightsaber-to-lightsaber duels.
Dooku wielded a curved-hilt lightsaber and favored the second form of lightsaber combat.
In addition to his formidable lightsaber skills, Dooku was very knowledgeable and skilled in the use of the Force. He demonstrated great prowess and strength in the use of telekinesis. During his duels with Ventress and his escape from Hondo's pirates, he displayed great skill at using telekinesis in finer, more precise tasks, such as disarming Ventress while also levitating her against a wall during her failed attempt to kill him with Savage Opress. He was even capable of telekinetically manipulating people's motor skills, such as when he
to take out his blaster and shoot his comrade, while he performed a similar feat when he made Padmé Amidala aim at and shoot
Dooku was also highly skilled in the use of Force lightning, using it as both a means of torture and execution, and was able to use it in conjunction with telekinesis, usually to send a person flying with his lightning or even to levitate his opponents while using his lightning on them, as he demonstrated on Ventress and two Nightsister assassins.
That lightsaber. It's—Where did you get that?
Dooku was presented a Sith Infiltrator for his use after becoming a Sith apprentice.
Conscious of his aristocratic status, Dooku preferred to wear elegant garments—whether as a member of the Jedi Order, the Count of his homeworld Serenno, or as the Sith Lord Darth Tyranus—befitting his elevated station.
His wardrobe included a hand-woven tunic made on
, that were an emblem of the Count of Serenno, held by a clasp of
In addition, his sleepwear consisted of dark blue exquisite pajamas that he purchased from one of the most exclusive tailors in the galaxy. Dooku's pajamas were stitched from the finest
, its elegant patterning rivaled only by the prominent monogram on his front chest pocket.
Dooku's preferred ship during the Clone Wars was a Punworcca 116-class solar sailer.
In addition to the various capital ships he made use of as leader of the Confederacy of Independent Systems, Dooku also owned several personal vehicles. After becoming apprentice to Darth Sidious, he was presented with his own
, both of which he used to escape the Battle of Geonosis
He's very aloof, very self-contained, obviously completely fearless. He is extremely intelligent, perhaps more so than almost anyone else. He's obviously a man of immense power. I don't suppose that the question of moral values entered into his head. He's not immoral—he's amoral. Morality is a word that doesn't figure in his vocabulary at all. It's power. Which is something that exists very much in our world today.
―Sir Christopher Lee's thoughts on his character Dooku
Christopher Lee with George Lucas on the set of
portrayed Dooku during most of the character's lightsaber sequences, due to Lee's inability to enact these physical scenes because of his age. Rowling's head was digitally replaced with Lee's during post-production.
Early concept art of Dooku by Iain McCaig
Dooku's character underwent multiple development iterations during the creative process of
experimented with various female Sith designs, including dark queens, robotic warriors, and vampiric witches as well as a shapeshifting alien concept that eventually evolved into
eventually decided on the idea of a battle scarred Jedi warrior who parted ways with the Jedi Order. The final designs of the character were intended to reflect the menacing atmosphere conveyed by
Christopher Lee reprised his role in the
Don't think of it as a first name, but a singular name. The aristocracy of Serenno only use one name, but use the format Dooku of House Serenno, not Dooku Serenno.
―Cavan Scott on whether "Dooku" is the character's first or last name
languages, "do cu," pronounced exactly as in "Dooku," means "from the ass" or "of the ass." For this reason, Dooku's name was changed to "Dookan" in
word, originally used to describe someone who ruled a city-state after overthrowing the preexisting government. It was a legitimate form of government and the word's meaning was not unfavorable in itself, but over time, as democracy developed, it gained negative connotations and came to mean "oppressor" or "tyrant."
considered giving the count another name but ultimately decided against it. As such,
Scott further noted Serennian aristocracy only use a singular name while being formally addressed as members of House Serenno. In effect, Dooku's full name is not "Dooku Serenno," with "Dooku" instead being a singular name, but the count would answer to the formal title "Dooku of House Serenno."
, Dooku allied with Poggle the Lesser and San Hill in a plot to destroy their unstable ally Grievous and transform him into a cyborg to serve them.
said this was to be disregarded as an outdated reference to Grievous's backstory in
However, other canon sources have brought in details of Grievous's Legends backstory, including Dooku's role in the shuttle crash that injured Grievous.
revealed that Darth Sidious had Dooku and Maul as Sith apprentices concurrently.
biography gallery says that the Sith Lord brought Dooku into the Sith Order sometime after becoming Supreme Chancellor of the Republic. This slide is placed after
the film in which Maul was thought to be killed.
stated that Dooku became a Sith apprentice after Maul's supposed death.
" established Dooku needed to have some association with the Sith before
, given he killed Sifo-Dyas during the chancellery of Finis Valorum,
all establish that Dooku left the Jedi before Qui-Gon Jinn's death.
states that Dooku credited Jinn's death as his reason for leaving the Order.
" later affirmed that Dooku was working alongside Darth Sidious during the events of
, but he was aware of Maul being Sidious' apprentice, had not fully committed himself to the dark side, and did not yet have his
. Upon the death of Yaddle in the episode, Dooku formally became Sidious' pupil,
thereby mending the contradicting sources; Dooku was indeed partnered with Sidious and aided in the Sith Lord's efforts, but he was not the Sith apprentice Darth Tyranus until Maul's supposed demise.
Dooku (left) depicted with gray hair during his time as a Jedi
There is an additional discrepancy for Dooku's aging; flashbacks in
1 feature Dooku with white hair while still in the Jedi Order.
while in Dooku: Jedi Lost, an apparition of Jedi Ky Narec appearing to Asajj Ventress explicitly describes Dooku's beard as having turned to gray during the time the two men knew each other as part of the Order.
"The Sith Lord" later featured Dooku after leaving the Order, however he is visibly younger in this appearance, instead having black hair.
comic are framed as the memories of Jak'zin,
this article assumes the character simply misremembered Dooku's appearance over the years.
that Dooku knew the Separatist Alliance was destinated to lose the Clone Wars while the Galactic Republic would be transformed into the new Sith Empire.
features an internal monologue from Dooku in which the count reflects that it is the Separatists who will win the war so as to usher in his and Sidious's new Sith regime.
This article sides with the majority of sources and disregards this sentence.
The Official Stormtrooper Training Manual
As a Sith Lord, Dooku was great at swordplay, strategy, and kneeling before dudes in hooded capes.
The Official Stormtrooper Training Manual
LEGO Star Wars: The Official Stormtrooper Training Manual
. It established that Dooku was a famous historical figure, used his curved lightsaber to cut the crusts off
. It also explained that he scowled so much due to him surgically removing his other facial expressions, and among his defining attributes was kneeling before robed individuals.
Star Wars: The Prequel Trilogy – A Graphic Novel
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
Choose Your Destiny: A Clone Trooper Mission
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
The Crimson Corsair and the Lost Treasure of Count Dooku
Tales from a Galaxy Far, Far Away: Aliens: Volume I
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
Explore all of Wookieepedia's media for this article subject:
"Shadow of Malevolence" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Destroy Malevolence" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Cloak of Darkness" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Dooku Captured" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"The Gungan General" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Defenders of Peace" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"The Hidden Enemy" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Liberty on Ryloth" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Landing at Point Rain" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Weapons Factory" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
Highlights of the Saga: Kidnap of the Chancellor
Databank A-Z: Hydroid Medusas–Imperial Academies
Highlights of the Saga: Intrigue on Utapau
Highlights of the Saga: The Secret of Kamino
Weapons & Uniforms: The Grand Army of the Republic
Nute Gunray - Trade Federation Viceroy (ROTS)
Passel Argente - Corporate Alliance Magistrate
Poggle the Lesser - Geonosian Separatist
Databank A-Z: E-11 Blaster–Cornelius Evazan
Highlights of the Saga: Battle on Geonosis
Databank A-Z: Saw Gerrera–Commander Gree
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle of Geonosis
Weapons & Uniforms: Terror of the IG-100s
Databank A-Z: InterGalactic Banking Clan–Jakku
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Highlights of the Saga: Crash Landing on Coruscant
Highlights of the Saga: The Betrayal of Captain Argyus
Databank A-Z: Davish Krail–Kuat Drive Yards
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle of Teth
Highlights of the Saga: Ambush on Rugosa
Databank A-Z: Admiral Wiskovis–The Works
Highlights of the Saga: The Maridun Incident
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia: Updated and Expanded
Secrets of Spaceflight: Smuggling Bosses
Starship Fact File: Gauntlet Fighter/Armed Transport
Databank A-Z: Sabe–The Separatist Council
Highlights of the Saga: Duel on Stygeon Prime
Much to Learn You Still Have: 8 Things You Might Not Know About Wookiees
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
Entertainment Weekly's Ultimate Guide to Rogue One
Star Wars: Rogue One: The Ultimate Visual Guide
Highlights of the Saga: Finishing the Fight
Star Wars Super Graphic: A Visual Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, Updated and Expanded
Forces of Destiny: Tales of Hope & Courage
Star Wars Universe: Jedi vs. Sith: An Imbalance in the Force
Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles
Star Wars Lightsabers: A Guide to Weapons of the Force
Solo: A Star Wars Story: Tales from Vandor
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Starfighter Aces: Jango Fett — Legendary Bounty Hunter
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia, New Edition
Star Wars: The Galactic Explorer's Guide
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
"Unfinished Business" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"The Phantom Apprentice" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
Star Wars: The Clone Wars: Character Encyclopedia - Join the Battle!
Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy
Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy
at 20 | Concept Artist Roel Robles on the Design Origins of Count Dooku's Unique Lightsaber Hilt
at 20 | Rob Coleman on Bringing Yoda, Dexter Jettster, and More to Digital Life
SWCA 2022: 8 Things We Learned from the Marvel
Star Wars Celebration Anaheim News and Reveals!
Tales Of The Jedi | Official Trailer | Disney Plus
All the D23 Expo News, a First Look at Phase II of The High Republic, and More!
Tales of the Jedi Poster Art, Mon Mothma Arrives in Andor, and More!
The Darker Side: An Exploration of the Occult in
Tales of the Jedi Arrives, Fiona Shaw Talks Andor, and More!
"The Empire Is Everywhere": The Creators of
The Bad Batch Returns, The Battle of Jedha, and More!
"Spoils of War" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
"Ruins of War" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
Cavan Scott on the Ghoulactic Horrors of
"Imperial March" Begins with a Galaxy of New Toys, Apparel, and More
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
LEGO Star Wars: Rebuild the Galaxy | Behind the Clip | Now Available on Disney+
News and Reveals from New York Comic-Con
Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy
Who Arrrrr the Pirates in the New Republic?
Celebration Japan 2025 Art Show - Reveal
Tales of the Underworld | Official Trailer | Available May 4 on Disney+
'Star Wars: The High Republic - The Finale' and More Marvel 'Star Wars' Titles Revealed At Star Wars Celebration
Tales of the Underworld | Star Wars Watch Party Island | May 2 on Fortnite
GENERAL GRIEVOUS FACES OFF AGAINST THE JEDI IN "STAR WARS: HYPERSPACE STORIES—GRIEVOUS"
Never-Before-Seen Art Celebrates 20 Years of Lucasfilm Animation at San Diego Comic-Con 2025
SDCC 2025: Highlights from the Lucasfilm Publishing Panel
NYCC 2025: All the News and Reveals from the Lucasfilm Publishing Panel
LEGO Star Wars: The Official Stormtrooper Training Manual
LEGO Star Wars Character Encyclopedia Updated Edition
Star Wars: The Clone Wars: Character Encyclopedia - Join the Battle!
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
states that Dooku was sixteen years old during his
, thereby placing the trials and their immediate aftermath to around
. Thus, the solar storm must have occurred around 85 BBY, as
states that Dooku is twenty years old during the
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
Sifo-Dyas and the Sith - The Lost Missions Q&A | Star Wars: The Clone Wars
Inside Intel: The Creation of the Clone Army
putting in the order for their creation—after joining the
. As the IG-100 must exist by 33 BBY, that intervention must have happened by that
History of the Ship: Grievous' Wheel Bike
Starfighter Aces: General Grievous — Cyborg Raider
Starfighter Aces: General Grievous — Cyborg Raider
Darth Maul and Other Followers of the Dark Side
Guide to the Galaxy: Sectors of the Galaxy
Prologue to the Clone Wars and the First Battle of Geonosis
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Heroes of Naboo and Other Characters of the Galaxy
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
(version archived on June 29, 2017; now replaced)
Highlights of the Saga: Battle of Kashyyyk
Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy
Highlights of the Saga: Duel to the Death
Starships and Vehicles: Trade Federation Ships
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: The Visual Dictionary
The Crimson Corsair and the Lost Treasure of Count Dooku
Star Wars: The Galactic Explorer's Guide
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
"Don't think of it as a first name, but a singular name. The aristocracy of Serenno only use one name, but use the format Dooku of House Serenno, not Dooku Serenno. In my mind it started as a sign of the importance of independence which runs through Serenno culture."
Lord of Misrule: The Autobiography of Christopher Lee
"When working on Jedi Lost we toyed in giving him two names but it didn't seem right, so we settled on the fact that he is Dooku of House Serenno and that the planet took its name from the House. Of course, we don't know what it was called before that... yet."
"Tweet lost, but did state that San Hill - Banking Clan Chairman -
contains an outdated reference to Legends via San Hill, Poggle, and Dooku working together to destroy and rebuild Grievous."
LEGO Star Wars: The Official Stormtrooper Training Manual
Entertainment Weekly's Ultimate Guide to Rogue One
Object Would Make the Perfect Valentine's Day Gift?