This article has multiple issues and is in need of major additions and/or work.
It is requested that this article, or a section of this article, be expanded. ({{
Parts of this article have been identified as no longer being up to date. ({{
}}) The article needs to be updated with
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Expanded Edition
Choose Your Destiny: A Finn & Poe Adventure
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
Please help Wookieepedia by editing this article. Once you have fixed an issue, you may remove it from the list of issues. See this article's
the Empire. We are purer. We have been through the
I agree, Phasma. The First Order is not the Empire. But perhaps, one day, if we all work very hard and do our very, very best… It could be.
that wished to remove disorder from existence and had a fanatical devotion to the totalitarian notions of
with the New Republic and spreading influence from beyond the confines of unknown
retreated into the Unknown Regions, which the Empire had secretly charted in the past. After blazing through ancient
, retreating Imperials met secret reinforcements, where
intended to build a stronger and purer Empire. In the
formed the First Order that plotted a return to power and sought to reclaim lost
were among the first leaders of the First Order. The
that they secretly built comprised a vast and technologically superior
—thousands of whom were abducted from outlying
. The First Order also undertook a major offensive to seize several hermetic kingdoms and their resources in the Unknown Regions. Eventually, the mysterious
rose to power as Supreme Leader, who was in fact an
. With its original leaders mostly sidelined, the First Order become subservient to the
that Sidious and his plans to use turn the First Order into a template for a resurgent
. Much of the First Order, however, was unaware of the
The First Order was publicly formed by the
. Throughout the Cold War, the First Order and the New Republic existed in a state of tension with occasional skirmishes but no direct fighting. As the First Order became increasingly hostile toward the New Republic, former
founded the Resistance to monitor its activities. However, the Senate refused to take forceful
action against them, believing that they posed no credible threat. The First Order also began to search for
. Although the Resistance succeeded in destroying the weapon during the
, they were unable to stop the First Order's invasion of the galaxy. During the
, who usurped the title of Supreme Leader. The First Order conquered much of the known galaxy under Ren's leadership, which was met with defiance and rebellion, to which Ren responded by enforcing a heavily brutal suppression of dissent.
, Ren formed an alliance with Sidious after discovering the
built by the Sith Eternal—on Exegol. Sidious promised Ren control of his
and the chance to succeed him as Galactic
. However, Ren's ambition to rule the First Order as a true Empire ended when he
as Ben Solo. Despite the loss of the Supreme Leader,
swore his allegiance to Sidious, who declared himself Emperor once more. However, his plans for the Sith resurrection were thwarted by Rey and Ben Solo during the
, where the Emperor was ultimately destroyed along with his
. Without the support of Sith reinforcements, the First Order failed to quell the uprising against its rule and ultimately collapsed in the wake of the Resistance's victory at Exegol, even though an entire generation consisting of countless officers and stormtroopers remained along with missing foundries and hubs of manufacturing unaccounted for.
Palpatine felt that the universe beyond the edges of our maps was where his power came from. Over the many years he, with our aid, sent men and women beyond known space. They built labs and communication stations on distant moons, asteroids, out there in the wilds. We must follow them. Retreat from the galaxy. Go out beyond the veil of stars.
The Emperor posthumously triggered the Contingency which decreed the destruction of the Galactic Empire for failing to protect him.
secretly plotted to overthrow the Republic with the formation of his own
. Through his apprentice, Sidious secretly commanded a rival galactic government known as the
of the Republic as Sheev Palpatine long beyond the expiration of his term. Gradually amassing far more emergency powers than would be ordinarily allowed through the
of the Separatists through his new apprentice,
. Sidious, as Chancellor Palpatine, then issued the
officially transforming the thousand-year-old
of the Jedi and a massive military to enforce his will, Sidious remained largely unchallenged as
throughout the initial nineteen years of his
, embarking on a gradual conquest of the galaxy. Eventually, the
was formed to oppose his aggressive expansion and genocidal actions,
the Empire suffered a decisive defeat at the Battle of
was destroyed, and along with it, the Emperor and his apprentice,
One of Palpatine closest advisers, Yupe Tashu, suggested that the Empire retreat into the Unknown Regions, which had been seeded with shipyards, laboratories, and storehouses.
Unknown to anyone but a select few, however, the Emperor had long been sending Imperial
with assistance from a collection of high-ranking power players within the Empire, including his
and the individuals that went on to form the
Over the course of decades, the Unknown Regions had been seeded with shipyards, laboratories, and storehouses that would serve to prepare for the Empire's rebirth as part of Sidious'
His plan was to ensure the Galactic Empire's destruction as he believed that an Empire should not outlive its Emperor
and its' inability to defend him made it unworthy of continued existence.
However, he also planned the creation of a new Empire beyond the borders of known space; resources and select personnel were discreetly funnelled to the Unknown Regions, where the Empire could begin anew.
Per Sidious's plans, only the most ruthless of Imperial personnel would remain to forge the new state.
Sidious entrusted the task of executing the Contingency to his protégé,
Following another year of bloody conflict, the fractured Empire made its last stand over the sandy wastes of
, which had become a rallying point for retreating Imperials, against the
, resulting in many casualties on both sides of the conflict
On Jakku, a secret Imperial research base,
which plotted out computerized routes through the Unknown Regions. These computers used information derived from
that the Emperor had previously sent to explore these routes.
Jakku came to serve as a jumping-off point for Imperial
and the retreating Imperials destroyed the research base before the New Republic could reach it.
Gallius Rax, the Emperor's protégé, spearheaded efforts for the exodus into the Unknown Regions.
As part of the Contingency, Rax's secret objective in the Battle of Jakku was to destroy the planet to cripple both the remnants of the Empire and the New Republic; however, he was prevented from carrying out this phase by Grand
, who killed Rax. In his dying words, Rax urged Sloane to take his place in the Contingency with
and rendezvous with the Emperor's flagship, the
, which had been dispatched in advance to the Unknown Regions. Their journey took several months and consisted of many short
jumps, during which time Sloane discovered that the
had been transmitting coordinates to other Imperial
to bring the ship in and rejoin with the others. There, she intended to board and saw an opportunity to rebuild the Empire; one that was stronger and purer, and not given to the backstabbing and incest of the Galactic Empire.
Defeated at Jakku and facing severe internal unrest, the Empire was forced to sign the
, severely limiting its ability to wage war and ushering in its demise
signed the Galactic Concordance, which called for the dissolution of the Galactic Empire. Chancellor Mothma then issued another declaration designating all surviving
while the Empire began to break into remnants. A
of Imperial vessels was confined to predetermined boundaries by the New Republic in the
of the Empire, where it was overseen by Republic observers.
After the signing of the Galactic Concordance, the New Republic arrived in systems still under Imperial control to announce the signing of the historic peace treaty. However, by the time the Republic reached these systems, fleets had already retreated to the Unknown Regions. The battle's end at Jakku was marked by the sudden departure of the surviving Imperial warships into the Unknown Regions following the announcement of the treaty, where they had seemingly disappeared.
, allowing them to coordinate efforts that subvert the New Republic.
But what we can ascertain is that, for a period at least, the organisation and administration of what would become the First Order was based on military lines, and that it was likely the recipient of a great deal of covert financial support from the Corporate Sector Authority.
The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
While in hiding in the Unknown Regions, the organisation of what would become the First Order was formed under Sloane's direction
In an effort to escape the prying eyes of the New Republic and restore the Empire after the Battle of Jakku,
into the Unknown Regions spearheaded by Rax, Sloane, and Hux.
the Imperials were also guided into uncharted space thanks to the dark side adept known as
the Imperials likely would have died without.
All the same, the Imperial remnant blazed across the badly mapped star systems of the Unknown Regions over the course of years. Eventually, however, they found a foothold on planets the Empire had secretly charted in the past.
Within the Unknown Regions, they met secret reinforcements
and plotted a return to power, for which they began to build fleets and
in secret to reclaim the Imperial legacy.
Brendol Hux represented his remnant in the
operation that had been of great interest to the late Emperor during early years of his reign.
Meanwhile, the Imperial remnant in the galaxy proper
withered away into a remnant of political hardliners locked in a cold war with the New Republic until they reformed into
First Order began kidnapping children to fill out the ranks of its new
specifically targeting the children of former Rebel leaders. Amongst those taken was the daughter of Rebel General
sat in tatters and had fled across the galaxy's farthest reaches,
with even the Imperial hideouts of the Unknown Regions remaining scattered. Still,
started to form a new chain of command, albeit an obscure and skeletal one, for Imperial survivors. Amongst their followers was
, who was ordered to establish ties with the
. The Sith Eternal secretly trusted Pryde as a valuable follower and thus dispatched
Later in 21 ABY, the First Order was founded
by the Unknown Regions remnant, who regrouped themselves
Indeed, the rise of the First Order entailed festering Imperial remnants uniting and blooming into that singular, new force.
Brendol Hux, a founder of the First Order, was a predominant figure in the early First Order.
The First Order specifically grew from the
with Sloane and Hux becoming part of its first set of leaders.
influenced by the principles of the fallen Empire,
the origins of the First Order thus dated back to the Galactic Empire, with the remnants of the Imperial Military forming the basis of the
was the First Order's secretive spiritual branch;
, secretly working to ensure the First Order's conquest of the galaxy.
The rise of the First Order took advantage of the New Republic's failure to properly exert its authority or truly patrol the Outer Rim.
Beyond that, the First Order would keep its emerging military might hidden within the Unknown Regions, where they avoided the eyes of the New Republic. The
's ideology would be focused on mobility and individual firepower due to its much smaller fleet in comparison to the Old Empire.
As an entity that claimed the mantle of a successor to the fallen Empire, the elite of the First Order included within its numbers the members of the wealthy dynasties that had once belonged to the Imperial aristocracy during Palpatine’s reign. Having maintained their devotion to the Imperial vision for building a better galactic order that was formed through any means necessary, these lineages — including the
— were counted among the upper class of the First Order and commanded respect from various members.
Through my manipulation of Snoke, I began gathering forces, building an army capable of opposing the New Republic that had arisen in my absence. Through Snoke, I would make certain that the First Order would be mine to control.
The First Order fell under the control of Supreme Leader Snoke, a strandcast created by Darth Sidious to control the First Order and make it a force capable of opposing the New Republic.
Just as many of the Emperor's servants carried the Old Empire's greatest military secrets to the Unknown Regions, so too did Snoke, who eventually rose to become
blazed through the Unknown Regions by Snoke's
, most of the former Imperial officers would have likely perished crossing into the uncharted realm.
Snoke was a mysterious humanoid, with very scant details as to regarding his origins,
Despite his abilities not being explicitly Sith in origin, Snoke's powerful abilities as a force user and knowledge made him the undisputed heir as the leader to the forces gathered under the Contingency.
by the Emperor and his cult following, the Sith Eternal, prior to his demise, and discarded as a potential vessel for the Sith Lord's dark essence.
Instead, Snoke was made to serve as a proxy ruler for his creator and influenced by the zombified Sith Lord from afar
to gather the forces that would go to make the armies of the First Order and spread his influence across the galaxy through less direct means. With that, Sidious ensured that the new empire which arose after the Battle of Jakku was his to control.
The First Order did not know of Snoke's origins, though some came to peer behind the veil of secrecy and realized that he was subservient to some unseen force.
Snoke himself was possibly unaware of the factual nature surrounding his existence,
and indeed remained unaware of his status as a pawn in Sidious's larger game for his entire life.
Darth Sidious secretly manipulated the First Order from the shadows, intending to absorb the junta into the new Sith Empire his followers were building.
The Emperor's resurrection, the existence of his followers, the Sith Eternal, and their hidden base of operations, Exegol, were all secrets unknown to even the highest echelons of the First Order. Much of the First Order was even unaware of the Contingency itself nor their ultimate purpose in it, for as the First Order served as its military wing, the Sith Eternal lay at its spiritual heart. The true leadership of the First Order operated from behind a veil of secrecy, driven by the tenets of the dark side of
From afar, the phantom Emperor, working from the shadows,
forged the remnants of the Empire into the First Order as he plotted his return to power.
Once the time was right, Sidious would return at the head of a new Sith Empire, which would absorb the First Order and sweep aside any other pretenders or states to control the galaxy.
Snoke's choices when governing the faction only added to his mysterious nature. The dark side adept made no designs toward the old title Emperor, relied on mysticism and focusing on spiritual matters while allowing his generals to wield the First Order military in his name, and was unwilling to meet in person with his subordinates, instead relying on large casting presence holograms to communicate with and to administer orders to the underlings who served him.
, and Brendol Hux were originally seen as potential leaders of the Empire's remnants by the admirals and
who had survived the implosion of the Empire and the New Republic's wrath, but they were sidelined, co-opted, or destroyed by Snoke. Brendol's son, General Armitage Hux, was spared in the long term by Snoke in order to use him as a political tool in his rise to power.
Pryde was eventually made privy to Palpatine's survival and became the Emperor's contact within the regime. In addition to Pryde, many of the young generation that the Sith Eternal harvested for
were originally conscripted into the First Order as children, but, due to their potential, spies culled and "disappeared" them, allowing them to become the
that comprised the infantry of Darth Sidious'
Someone in your army tried to kill you. Clearly, you've managed to inspire a lot of loyalty, Hux.
Oh, please. I thought you could read minds, Ren. You honestly believe people hate
Kylo Ren, General Armitage Hux, and Captain Phasma were members of a new generation of First Order leaders.
As the son of a founding member of the First Order,
was raised in the organization's military wing
joined the First Order under the persona of Kylo Ren. He became the
as well as the apprentice of Supreme Leader Snoke. Hailing from the powerful bloodline of the
, Ren had in his master's estimation the potential to become as strong as his grandfather Darth Vader.
Unlike Armitage and Phasma, Ren did not possess an official rank in the First Order military. Nonetheless, as Snoke's apprentice he wielded the authority to command his master's forces.
Ren, Armitage, and Phasma represented a new generation of leaders that supplanted the old guard in the First Order's command structure.
As part of this turnover, Armitage and Phasma conspired to assassinate Brendol; Armitage had been abused by his father from his youth, while Phasma sought to erase her past. Armitage left the actual murder up to Phasma with his only instruction being to make it untraceable. Phasma carried out the killing of Brendol using the toxin from the bite of a
. Armitage then gave a brief address to Captain
informing them of Brendol's passing and ascended to his leadership role in the military, taking over from his late father.
At some point, a cargo ship was ambushed containing military gear which the ship's crew claimed was meant for the First Order. Among the possessions seized was a set of
. Terex immediately became curious about the modern design and confirmed that it was not of Imperial design. After Terex asked of its origin, he continued to think about the implications of this new information. Sometime later, he subsequently joined the ranks of the
Meanwhile, the First Order had to contend with several threats that lurked within the Unknown Regions: hermetic kingdoms which were confronted by the Order. On Supreme Leader Snoke's instruction, the new military undertook a major offensive against several of these kingdoms to seize their worlds and resources to fuel their rise.
Phasma herself led from the front as the First Order charted through the wilderness of the Unknown Regions,
found himself gaining valuable experience from the expansion.
Over time, the former Imperials reunited as the First Order and coolly inhabited a wing of Republic politics until tensions reached a breaking point. The First Order seceded from the New Republic, a move that was welcomed by many in the galactic capital. But others realized that without Republic oversight, the First Order would return to the Empire's draconian ways and ambitious expansion.
The Amaxine warriors were a paramilitary group with secret ties to the First Order.
The First Order sought to weaken the New Republic and to generate funding to build up the
. The First Order had used a militia group called the
to achieve this. Seven years prior to the "
, the First Order used the Amaxines to inject billions of
as start-up capital into Rinnrivin's cartel, turning the hitherto minor cartel into a major crime syndicate. Establishing a mutual relationship with the Amaxines, Rinnrivin embarked on lucrative smuggling and gambling operations with the proceeds being channeled through shadowy corporations and
sources back to the First Order, which used the money to rebuild its fleet. In addition, the Order also recruited several Centrist senators like
as clandestine agents who worked to subvert the Republic from within. Many Centrists, an informal faction who were the rivals to the
, and who favored a greater central government and military, admired the Old Empire's leaders and practices. Another proxy of the First Order was
who had become the leader of the Amaxine warriors. While Hadrassian saw the Amaxines as the vanguard of the First Order, Lady Carise regarded her as too volatile to manage. Hadrassian in return was impatient with the Centrists for refusing to secede from the Republic.
The First Order's operations were almost exposed when Rinnrivin Di's criminal activities began to exact a devastating toll on the planet
's off-world trade. In response, the New Republic senators
embarked on an investigation which uncovered Rinnrivin's links to the Amaxine warriors. However, the two senators failed to discover the Order's linkages to the Amaxines and Rinnrivin's cartel. In an attempt to sow chaos, Arliz Hadrassian bombed the New Republic's senatorial complex. This set in motion a chain of events that led to the death of Rinnrivin and the destruction of most of the Amaxine warriors' forces on the planet
. While most Republic senators and the media believed that the demise of Rinnrivin's cartel and the Amaxines eliminated all threats to the Republic, Senator Organa disagreed with the New Republic's complacency. However, she was sidelined from the political process following a political scandal that led to the public revelation that her father was Darth Vader, which discredited Organa and forced her to resign from the Senate.
The First Order claimed legitimacy as a successor state of the former Galactic Empire.
After the assassination of Tai-Lin Garr, Lady Carise and her Centrist counterparts began preparing a
from the New Republic in order to join and support the First Order.
Acting as a political coalition of worlds advocating centralized authority,
star systems aligned with the Centrists—including the planets
—formally withdrew from the New Republic and joined the First Order
marking the official formation of the First Order as a regime and beginning the
between the First Order and the New Republic.
While some in the Galactic Senate applauded the notion, others realized that without New Republic supervision, the former Imperials would return to the draconian ways of their predecessors.
Supreme Leader Snoke initiated a vast rearmament program, which would go on to produce a technologically superior military over the one that once existed under the Galactic Empire, and began subverting the Republic, as the First Order was keenly aware that it lacked the superior numbers and support of the former Imperial state.
Through the ages, I've seen evil take many forms. The Sith. The Empire. Today, it is the First Order. Their shadows spreading across the galaxy. We must face them. Fight them. All of us..
There is no fighting against the First Order. Not one we can win.
The forces of the First Order emerged from the Unknown Regions, revealing the results of its rearmament program in defiance of the Galactic Concordance.
The Centrist worlds that seceded from the New Republic provided the First Order with a foothold in the known galaxy,
by which time its military forces emerged from the Unknown Regions, precipitating the return of
In defiance of the Galactic Concordance, First Order forces frequently crossed the
, launching several incursions into both Republic space and other
The term "cold war" was used because there was no direct, large-scale fighting, but instead occasional minor skirmishes. Despite mounting First Order aggression, the New Republic refused to take forceful military action against the Order, seeking to avoid provoking another devastating galactic war at all costs.
Meanwhile, the First Order utilized its political supporters and puppets within the Galactic Senate to ensure that the wider galaxy continued to consider them harmless, which also served to begin turning public opinion against those that opposed the Imperial successor.
, was founded by General Leia Organa, who realized that the Senate could not protect the New Republic, alongside her few remaining allies, like
. The Resistance acted as a check on the military designs of the First Order.
to the New Republic Senate, which publicly claimed that the Order was building hidden shipyards, armories, research-and-development labs, and academies, detailing the fact that facilities were working day and night on the massive military buildup.
Meanwhile, the First Order began to expand and took over
During their career as a mercenaries that offered their services to unprotected star systems,
were brought into conflict with the First Order, which chased the starfighter squadron from restricted zones.
—declared the Benathy subjects of the First Order, which he ordered the Benathy to worship.
, who was assigned as punishment for having allowed the building's previous owner to escape.
The First Order is a remnant born of a war thirty years gone. Yes, they persist, yes, they continue, but by all accounts they do so barely. They are, at best, an ill-organized, poorly equipped, and badly funded group of loyalists who use propaganda and fear to inflate their strength and their importance.
They're flying state-of-the-art TIEs, they're using commando boarding parties and latest-generation attack shuttles in clear violation of the Galactic Concordance. They're training troops and pilots. We interrupted a military operation, Lonno, not some snatch and grab. They wanted the Yissira Zyde and they got it. They wanted it badly enough they paid for it with eight TIEs, those pilots, and however many people were aboard the shuttle that Muran and Iolo shot down. That's not a poorly organized force. That's not a poorly motivated force. That's a real threat.
―Major Lonno Deso and Poe Dameron, after the Suraz engagement
The New Republic did not consider the First Order a threat to the galaxy, despite its military buildup.
Even as the First Order expanded its sphere of influence,
the New Republic Senate believed that the First Order posed no real, credible threat to the galaxy at large and the hard-won galactic peace. Echoing these sentiments, Chancellor
argued there was no need for concern as long as the Order adhered to the dictates of the Galactic Concordance. Despite this, the First Order blatantly defied the accords by ushering in the mass mobilization of superior
forces, along with violating Republic bans on the sale of weapons to the First Order. Testing the resolve of the New Republic, small skirmishes occasionally erupted between the First Order and Republic, all while the Starkiller operation sought a suitable planet for implementation.
With the First Order's growing threat and rapid mobilization for war, prominent members of the Republic voiced concern over the First Order, with the most vocal being former Senator Leia Organa.
However, Organa—holding a reputation that was already damaged thanks to the revelations about her parentage
—was largely scoffed at by the Senate at large as an alarmist and warmonger. Nonetheless, Organa used her influence as a prominent member of the former Rebel Alliance to recruit many former military officers who had been left forgotten by the
passed by the Galactic Senate. Funded by like-minded senators who shared Organa's fears about the First Order, the Resistance came to serve as the opposing force to the Order's growing power, sparking a new phase of the continued Cold War.
The Resistance was formed as a result of the New Republic's unwillingness to risk open war with the First Order.
Meanwhile, the Republic Senate had become mired in corruption, darkness,
amplified by the political gridlock caused by the divide between the Populists and the Centrists.
, also colluded with the First Order for promises of wealth and power
or out of a legitimate belief in what they saw as the values of fascistic governance.
Large sums of credits were discreetly transferred to Ro-Kiintor through the
. Thanks to the work of such politicians
and a general fear in the Senate of wanting to avoid a new war,
the Resistance was forced to work on its own until it could obtain irrefutable evidence of First Order violations of the peace that could be presented to
and General Organa discovered that Senator Erudo had been colluding with the First Order and that he had valuable information about
, whom Organa believed could lead them to her brother, Luke Skywalker, who had gone into self-exile.
The First Order deployed stormtroopers to the
, ostensibly to protect the station from piracy.
as part of their preparations for their planned war against the rest of the galaxy. The First Order occupied the
raids on the platform, which the Order itself had secretly manufactured as a pretext of intervention so that the
The First Order had prior interest on the station; it had
, which the Order claimed were members of a high-ranking First Order family from outside its military hierarchy. In actuality, Kel and Eila were orphaned survivors of the First Order's aggressive
The First Order's presence was welcomed by some civilians on the
, but others opposed the Order's measures, leading to a riot among the
In response, the First Order targeted residents who opposed or defied their control and placed them under arrest to be sent offworld under the pretext of an interest in security.
The droid will soon be delivered to the Resistance… leading them to the last Jedi. If Skywalker returns… the new Jedi will rise.
Captain Phasma ordered Agent Terex to track the Resistance pilot Poe Dameron.
In response to the Resistance's Operation: Sabre Strike, Captain Phasma dispatched Agent Terex to recover the information that Poe Dameron obtained from Senator Erudo. Terex's First Order strike force pursued Dameron and his
took place on the skies over Ovanis and the
, which was complicated by the presence of the
. Ultimately, Terex and his landing force were defeated. The
gave the information on Lor San Tekka to Dameron. To avoid war between the First Order and the New Republic, Terex and his surviving men were allowed to leave on their
The First Order and the Resistance sought to find Lor San Tekka, who possessed the key to finding Jedi Master Luke Skywalker.
Terex later obtained intelligence that Black Squadron were
. Dameron traveled to the prison world to question the
about his knowledge of San Tekka's whereabouts. Terex bribed
into abandoning Black Squadron to the prison population. Though Grakkus had made a deal with Terex to disclose the information, Grakkus changed his mind and decided to sell the information to whoever got him out first.
Incensed at Grakkus' double-cross, Terex hired the crime lords
and kill Black Squadron. He planned to interrogate Grakkus and then kill him.
Grakkus' plan was, however, foiled by Black Squadron's
, who deactivated Megalox's gravity shield. While Black Squadron and Grakkus escaped, Terex and his mercenaries were pinned down by the high gravity. Terex managed to escape aboard the
, seeking to punish Luta for letting Black Squadron escape. His ship blasted several shuttles but was forced to retreat when Black Squadron turned around and inflicted considerable damage on the
. Captain Phasma summoned Terex back to First Order space to report for debriefing, but Terex instead chose to pursue his nemesis Dameron.
Dameron was helped by Suralinda Javos, a journalist investigating the First Order's clandestine activities.
and former New Republic Starfleet member
discovered that the First Order was building military installations, shipyards, weapons research facilities, and "something bigger" in violation of the Galactic Concordance. She met with Dameron on the Inner Rim gas giant of
, hoping to sell the information to the Resistance in order to boost her journalistic career. However, the First Order Security Bureau Agent
and his stormtroopers captured Javos and Dameron. During interrogation, Javos managed to kill Weel and free Dameron. After escaping, Javos decided to join the Resistance.
Instead of returning to First Order space, Terex traveled to the crime haven of
There, he retook control of the Ranc Gang,
which he had helped create after the Battle of Jakku.
Against Captain Phasma's orders, Terex decided to use his Ranc Gang to destroy Poe and the Resistance. His plan involved giving false intelligence on the First Order to the Resistance
and tracking Dameron back to the Resistance base. Terex wanted to destroy the Resistance once and for all to aid the First Order's conquest of the galaxy. Terex's plans were upended when Dameron realized the deception and led Terex's Ranc Gang fleet to a
In addition, Oddy decided to break Terex's leverage on him by rescuing his wife
and several slaves from Terex's flagship,
. While Terex led a landing party in pursuit of Dameron and the droids, Black Squadron
Oddy and most of the slaves managed to escape in
while Black Squadron provided firing cover. Terex's landing party was also wiped out by N1-ZX, who had been reprogrammed with
's droid personality template. Terex also fought with Dameron and BB-8 but was disarmed following a struggle. The battle came to an end when First Order forces under
arrived and wiped out Terex's Ranc Gang fleet and flagship
Dameron delivered Terex to Commander Malarus, who arrested the rogue agent for risking open war between the First Order and the Resistance.
Malarus had been dispatched by the First Order to arrest Terex, whose rogue mission violated Supreme Leader Snoke's directive to avoid open conflict with the New Republic and New Republic-aligned forces such as the Resistance. Malarus also led a landing party who met with Dameron and took the captive Terex into custody.
While onboard a transport, she had Terex interrogate Muva for information on the Resistance.
Malarus however lost Muva with the aid of Dameron and Wexley, Malarus was then forced to watched as Muva made a suicide run on the
and followed by her escape into hyperspace.
where she fought with Dameron. She was confronted by an official of
, who arrested her and said they would give her a trial.
Threatened by the return of the Jedi Order, the Supreme Leader prioritized the hunt for Luke Skywalker.
—who had gone into self-imposed exile following the failed resurrection of the Jedi Order, for which he blamed himself
—Supreme Leader Snoke believed that if Skywalker were to ever return, the new Jedi would rise, which would threaten the First Order's rise to power.
As a result, the Supreme Leader deployed the Starkiller commanding triumvirate
—General Hux, Captain Phasma, and Kylo Ren—to Jakku, where Dameron and BB-8 had recovered the
fragment from Lor San Tekka, an old ally of General Organa. Seeking to capture the droid, the First Order
where San Tekka resided, but BB-8 was able to escape with the piece of the map.
At Ren's command, First Order troops massacred a village on Jakku.
The villagers of Tuanul fought back but were defeated; the survivors were then herded into a large group while San Tekka was brought to Ren himself, who demanded he turn over information on the map to the First Order. San Tekka claimed that Ren could not deny the truth that was his own family, causing Ren to slay the old man with his
. Dameron then fired on Ren in retaliation, but the dark warrior
the blast while his stormtroopers captured the pilot and brought him to
Captain Phasma and her stormtroopers—except for
—executed the remaining villagers on Ren's orders.
though not before Ren tortured Dameron and discovered the map fragment to be in a
droid back on Jakku. During their escape, Dameron dubbed the renegade stormtrooper Finn. The pair crash landed in the
on Jakku, where Finn presumed Dameron deceased. Finn eventually found BB-8 alongside a
, but the First Order also found them, leading them to mark Rey as well and pursue the three across Jakku. However, Rey, Finn, and BB-8 were able to escape Jakku aboard the
. They eventually stumbled on Rebellion war heroes and
in space, and the five of them traveled to
in order to deliver BB-8 and the map fragment to General Organa at the
On the First Order's secret Starkiller Base, General Hux informed Supreme Leader Snoke that their
was ready and proposed using it on the New Republic in order to draw out the Resistance. Supreme Leader Snoke authorized the operation and dismissed Hux before he conferred with Kylo Ren, with whom he discussed an apparent awakening in the Force. The Supreme Leader then informed his dark apprentice that the droid had fallen into the hands of his father, Han Solo, before cutting his holographic transmission to Starkiller Base.
Today is the end of the Republic. The end of a regime that acquiesces to disorder. At this very moment, in a system far from here… the New Republic lies to the galaxy… while secretly supporting the treachery… of the loathsome Resistance. This fierce machine which you have built… upon which we stand… will bring an end to the Senate! To their cherished fleet! All remaining systems will bow to the First Order! And will remember this… as the last day of the Republic!
The New Republic was destroyed by Starkiller Base as a demonstration of the First Order's power.
On the very eve of the planned war, General Hux delivered
speech to the legions of stormtroopers under his command who assembled to witness the destructive firepower of the weapon. Hux declared that the day would mark the end of the New Republic and denounced the Republic for lying to the galaxy, claiming that the Republic secretly supported the Resistance.
After proclaiming that the remaining systems would bow to the First Order, General Hux commanded that the weapon be fired, and massive beams of energy were fired across the galaxy
towards the Hosnian system. When the beams arrived, the astronomical bodies of the system were
, including the galactic capital of Hosnian Prime, and with it, the New Republic Senate and a
A division of First Order stormtroopers invaded Takodana to acquire the map to Luke Skywalker.
As the First Order rose to power through the
, it continued the hunt for the map to Skywalker, seeking to prevent the rise of the new Jedi. Its forces swiftly laid
on Takodana and leveled it. Rey fled into the forests surrounding the castle, but Ren deployed stormtroopers to the woods before heading into the woods himself, hunting Rey down and eventually finding and capturing her. He probed her mind with the Force and realized that she had seen the map. Ren then decided that he would not need the droid, believing that he could instead interrogate her to find out what she had seen. Ren was notified of a Resistance surprise attack by a stormtrooper officer, who requested more troops, but Ren instead ordered the First Order
to pull out, claiming that they had what they came for. First Order troops then boarded their ships and withdrew, taking the unconscious Rey along with them.
The Battle of Starkiller Base ended in the superweapon's destruction.
Aided by the deserter FN-2187 "Finn," Solo and Chewbacca infiltrated Starkiller Base to rescue Rey and disable the planetary shields, allowing a Resistance
to destroy the planet-converted superweapon. With the First Order minutes away from destroying the Resistance base on
, the team achieved their objectives, although Solo died in the process while trying to reconcile with Ren, his
with Organa. Escaping the planet with seconds to spare, the First Order's sun-harvesting superweapon was destroyed by the
, forming a new star where the planet once was. Supreme Leader Snoke ordered General Hux to leave the planet and come to him with Kylo Ren in order to complete his training.
, who were on a mission to learn more about the First Order's
They can't get away, Supreme Leader. We have them tied on the end of a string.
The First Order fleet had in large numbers regrouped for the new galactic war after the fall of Starkiller. Phasma returned from
who she blamed for being behind the one who had turned off the shields at Starkiller Base. She named
, were re-integrated into the fleet. They expressed a desire for vengeance and to prove themselves after failing to save the superweapon.
In spite of Starkiller Base's destruction, the First Order stood poised to conquer the galaxy.
Despite the loss of Starkiller Base, the First Order still possessed a secure and intact chain of command and massive military strength in the form of hundreds of battle-cruisers and millions of troops, emerging from the shadows to seize control of the galaxy by force. Following the loss of the Galactic Senate and the Hosnian system, the New Republic lost its leadership and its entire home fleet, which, due to the Military Disarmament Act, had been the majority of the Republic military.
Because of this imbalance, the New Republic was virtually helpless as First Order fleets spread across the galaxy,
all while the galaxy at large remained unaware of the destruction of Starkiller Base.
These events quickly led to the collapse of the New Republic's authority over the galaxy as individual planets and governments began looking to their own interests. Surviving senators dissolved the Republic's remaining
while other worlds capitulated to the First Order in order to avoid direct military confrontation.
As a result, the galaxy, as a whole, became divided.
was home to a Resistance cell that the First Order hunted in the Outer Rim.
The core Resistance group found itself greatly outmatched by the First Order,
though the First Order also had to contend with other
The First Order failed to prevent the loss of intelligence on the specifications of the
However, with the loss of the New Republic and its unofficial support of their forces, the Resistance only possessed a few military ships and a few hundred soldiers. This led General Leia Organa to order the complete evacuation of the Resistance base on D'Qar while a First Order fleet led by General Hux was on its way to destroy the Resistance once and for all.
General Hux received direct instructions from the Supreme Leader to annihilate the entire Resistance.
Setting their sights on the Resistance base, Hux's forces arrived in
and destroyed the base, but the Resistance was able to escape before the First Order could finish them off. Despite escaping, the Resistance's speedy evacuation had cost them the vast majority of their remaining fleet and left them as fugitives wandering in space. Meanwhile, Supreme Leader Snoke summoned his apprentice, Kylo Ren, to his throne room on the
, the First Order flagship, and mocked him for his failure at Starkiller Base and his ambitions to emulate Darth Vader.
, shortly arrived in the aftermath of the D'Qar evacuation and
to retrieve coaxium from the wreckage of the
with recovering the station or destroying it if recovery proved impossible due to its strategic importance and sought to prevent them from gaining the fuel, however this effort failed and the Resistance was able to successfully recovers coaxium and flee. Pyre and Tierny vowed to hunt for the
the platform. Posing as a stranded spacer, but was discovered as a First Order spy. Though Nena escaped, they were able to managed to undo her sabotage and escape First Order forces.
The Resistance was pursued through hyperspace by a fleet of First Order warships, including Snoke's flagship, the
, a newly developed technology descended and finally perfected from the Empire's
, the First Order tracked the Resistance to the
catching them completely off guard and destroying one of their cruisers instantly. Kylo Ren, leading a TIE squadron in his personal fighter, attacked the Resistance's
and blew up its hangar bay, taking out all of the Resistance's remaining fighters before he set his sights on the ship's
, where his mother, General Leia Organa, was. Though Ren was ultimately unable to bring himself to fire, his wingmen had no such qualms and fired on the bridge, exposing it to the vacuum of space and killing the majority of the Resistance's leadership, including Admiral Gial Ackbar. Organa was able to use the Force to pull herself back aboard, but she was left incapacitated. The Resistance's chain of command fell onto
, who oversaw their outrunning of the First Order, but their
supplies were dangerously low, and one by one their other ships were running dry and being destroyed by the
was almost out of fuel, the Resistance began to fragment as desertions dramatically increased as members saw the struggle against the First Order as a lost cause. Later, a full-blown mutiny occurred as two sides formed among the crew: those who wanted to escape and hide from the enemy, and those who wanted to fight. This mutiny, led by Poe Dameron, was put down by the recovered General Organa, and the Resistance attempted to slip down to the former Rebel world of Crait. However, due to the capture of the Resistance infiltration team on the
, the First Order learned of the plan when the team code breaker
betrayed the Resistance for his freedom and payment. This led the
Ren killed Snoke and usurped his position as Supreme Leader of the First Order.
Meanwhile, Kylo Ren brought Rey to Snoke's throne room onboard the
, but Snoke's short reign over the galaxy ended as Ren killed his master along with his guards, while in a desperate sacrificial gamble to save the Resistance, Vice Admiral Holdo aimed the
and entered lightspeed. As a result, the ship collided with the First Order flagship and cleaved it and several
-class Star Destroyers in half, saving the Resistance remnant and causing heavy damage to the First Order fleet.
Ren seized the title of Supreme Leader after the demise of Snoke. Driven by his rejection of the past, Ren endeavored to build a new galactic order by destroying the combined legacy of the Jedi, the Sith, the Rebellion, and all that came before. The First Order's forces quickly recovered, and, under the orders of the newly proclaimed Supreme Leader, sent an invading force of
on Crait where the Resistance was taking shelter.
Ren personally led the siege of the Resistance's forces
Luke Skywalker's sacrifice ensured the survival of the Resistance and the Jedi Order.
by Chewbacca and Rey, arrived and attacked the First Order's TIE fighters, drawing them away from the battlefield. Even so, the battle led to the continued deaths of many of the remaining Resistance soldiers and personnel and the further depletion of its equipment. In addition, the Resistance's allies in the Outer Rim were called on for reinforcements, but did not arrive. However, Luke Skywalker unexpectedly appeared and confronted the First Order alone on the battlefield. Ren ordered all of the walkers to open fire on Skywalker in an attempt to destroy him. However, Skywalker miraculously emerged unscathed, and Ren went down to the surface to personally face his old Jedi Master. During their duel, Ren realized he was actually fighting a
. Skywalker's projection vanished, leaving Ren furious as the distraction bought time for the remaining few dozen Resistance personnel to flee aboard the
. This is the end. This is the beginning. I will bring us to glory.
A gathering of First Order stormtroopers looked upon the remains of Snoke before saluting his successor, Kylo Ren, as their new Supreme Leader.
Following the Battle of Crait, Kylo Ren returned to the First Order flagship, the
, where he introduced himself as the new Supreme Leader to an assembly of stormtroopers and officers, including General Hux, in the Star Destroyer's hangar. During his speech, Ren displayed the bisected corpse of Snoke to his troops and attributed his predecessor's death to the enemies of the First Order. After using the Force to cast Snoke's remains into the vacuum of space, Ren declared that his reign marked a new beginning for the First Order, which he would lead to glory. Ultimately, Ren's claim to power was accepted by the soldiers who collectively saluted their new leader.
After the speech, Ren summoned Hux to discuss the current state of the First Order, including Snoke' future plans and the resources at their disposal. Hux told Ren that, although the First Order still commanded the largest military in the galaxy, a large portion of their fleet was destroyed along with the
. In addition, the destruction of Starkiller Base deprived the First Order of its shipyard. When Hux offered to assemble a strike force to seize the resources they required, Ren ordered the general to instead focus on building a
that was worthy of the new Supreme Leader.
You control the galaxy's largest military, with the First Order, you could truly rule. You could fulfill the dream of so many of our forebears, rebuild the Empire.
The First Order took possession of vast swathes of the galaxy.
The new Supreme Leader set out to establish his dominion over the galaxy,
with entire worlds surrendering in fear.
The First Order had taken possession of the Outer Rim world of
with little resistance as the galaxy having been left largely defenseless following the Starkiller incident. Stormtrooper forces raided the
and burning down their house, which earned the First Order the hatred of Agoyo, who later joined the Resistance. An
resulted in the victory of a pro-First Order merchant while the First Order arrived on Ryloth, giving the
five days to tithe before the shipping lanes would be
. The Resistance had fled to Ryloth, setting up in a
betrayed them to the First Order. Despite a
on the base, the Resistance escaped the planet.
to flee his homeworld and join the Resistance, while the
by the military junta left a young lieutenant named
Meanwhile, as the First Order continued its march towards galactic conquest. Rebellious worlds
became contested locations that the First Order deployed its ground forces to under the command of General
We can and will chase every rumor, every scrap, every vapor trail across the galaxy! We will mobilize every bounty hunter and informant and turn over every rock to find
of them…and wipe every one of them out of existence!
Sometime later, General Hux was informed of a sighting of Resistance operative Finn, but he dismissed it and told the lieutenant who had given him the information that the First Order wouldn't listen to every little word somebody said about the Resistance. Right then, Supreme Leader Ren came up to the bridge of the
and chastised Hux in front of the lieutenant, informing him that the First Order would in fact do anything to destroy the Resistance. To set an example, the First Order launched an assault that resulted in the
for assisting the Resistance after their escape from Crait.
to keep them out of the First Order's hands, was being tracked by Agent
, stormtroopers commissioned by their commander, Supreme Leader Ren, with hunting down ancient Sith artifacts.
who was also looking to acquire the relic. However, the First Order Raiders failed to acquire it and perished when the Sith relic unleashed an explosive wave of energy that incinerated Raith and his troops.
Ren forbade the galaxy from having any contact with the Resistance on pain of death.
The First Order then went to neutral world of
, where a Resistance party had been spotted. A thorough, brutal interrogation of a Fondor
revealed that while the Resistance group went through the system, the official wouldn't lend any assistance. However, Supreme Leader Ren declared that even mere contact with the enemy was
, and it gave him the excuse that he needed to put the
under complete First Order control. Ren then personally beheaded the official for this perceived treason with a swipe of his lightsaber—stating that the Empire had been too lenient.
The First Order then prepared to make an example of
-class warships arrived over Mon Cala acting on intelligence that the Resistance was there. There, a fleet of Mon Cala warships led by
managed to escape the planet's surface from the far side and jump to hyperspace, making the First Order aware that the
had chosen not to remain neutral and instead had given their support to the Resistance.
By then, the First Order had already had established a presence on Corellia.
The First Order is on the verge of bringing unprecedented peace to the galaxy. An era of harmony once unimaginable amid the corruption and chaos of the New Republic.
The First Order's invasion of the galaxy proceeded virtually unopposed following the annihilation of the New Republic.
As the war progressed, the First Order continued its manhunt for the surviving members of the Resistance, deploying forces to various locations across the galaxy,
while also dealing with cases of planetary and system rebellion.
Ren personally oversaw the search for Resistance fugitives at the
, having traveled to the remote installation via a
after receiving word that Rey had apparently been sighted on Batuu. Upon his arrival at
, Ren was greeted by a First Order officer whom he deemed incompetent, and consequently strangled the officer by way of the Force.
to sell propaganda items to those passing through.
, but it was retaken by the Resistance and the
in order to obtain a weapon that could control the
, but it was destroyed by Resistance member sympathizers.
Defeated by a Resistance cell, Agent Tierny suffered the price of failure when Supreme Leader Ren ended her life.
The First Order seized control of the planet
by the Rebel Alliance during the Galactic Civil War,
, trapping a group of Resistance recruits on Dantooine until the arrival of the
. The attack proved to be too much for recent recruit
Forgive me, sir, but these allies on Exegol…they sound like a cult. Conjurers and soothsayers.
They've conjured legions of Star Destroyers. The Sith fleet will increase our resources ten-thousandfold. Such range and power will correct the error of Starkiller Base.
―Domaric Quinn, to Kylo Ren, and Enric Pryde, to Domaric Quinn
the Sith Eternal cult revealed itself to the galaxy by
a message that declared revenge using the voice of Emperor Palpatine, the widely known and public identity of the Dark Lord of the Sith, Darth Sidious, who was still believed to be dead. After this event, Supreme Leader Kylo Ren, who was determined to destroy any potential threats to his rule over the galaxy, diverted First Order resources to
by his grandfather, Darth Vader, which had been imbued by means of the Force with coordinates.
Ren was determined to destroy any potential threats to his rule and discover the truth of Darth Sidious return.
to travel alone to his destination, where he discovered the hidden world of the Sith, Exegol, in the Unknown Regions. Within the
, Sidious revealed himself to Ren and divulged that he had created the former Supreme Leader Snoke. Ren, unwilling to humor the phantom Emperor's attempts to intimidate him, readied himself to strike down Sidious. Before the killing blow could be delivered, Sidious revealed the culmination of his thirty-year
by the Sith Eternal cult, standing by on Exegol in preparation to wreak havoc upon the galaxy at large.
After a generation, the work of the Emperor's followers was effectively complete;
the Sith Eternal military was on the verge of launching a full-scale invasion of the galaxy, its objective to restore Sith rule in the form of a new Sith Empire.
The Emperor advised Ren that he could use the Sith fleet to succeed where his grandfather Vader failed, ruling the galaxy as the new Emperor. He offered Ren the fleet on the condition of killing the Jedi apprentice Rey. The Dark Lord then warned Ren that Rey was, in fact, his granddaughter, and thus a
As part of a conspiracy decades in the making, the First Order was set to transformed into a resurgent Sith Empire with the Sith Eternal's fleet, the Final Order, on Exegol.
that a spy in their ranks had supplied information to the Resistance. Though he was unaware of the mole's identity, Ren was confident that the fleet on Exegol would make him invincible, transforming the First Order into a true Empire. General
expressed distrust over the Sith Eternal, denouncing them as a cult of conjurers and soothsayers.
Enric Pryde countered that the Sith fleet would increase their resources ten thousandfold, correcting what he believed was the "error" of Starkiller Base. Ren
General Quinn to death after he openly questioned the Supreme Leader as to what the Emperor was asking for in return. He then ordered the council to crush any worlds that defied them, and announced that he and his Knights of Ren were going hunting for "the scavenger," Rey.
The First Order found Rey, alongside Finn, Dameron, and Chewbacca, on
pursued them into the desert plains of Pasaana as the First Order arrived to Pasaana; the group escaped, though Chewbacca was captured by the Knights of Ren and brought on board Ren's Star Destroyer while Rey and Ren confronted each other in the desert. Later, the Knights of Ren tracked the group to
Ren was determined to take the Emperor's throne with Rey, a Jedi apprentice, by his side.
Ren arrived at Kijimi on his Star Destroyer and locked down the city. Finn and Poe Dameron were captured and, alongside Chewbacca, sentenced to execution, but Hux freed them, revealing himself to be the spy. The group liberated the
and escaped, though not before Ren revealed to Rey that she was the granddaughter of Sidious and that they formed a
. Pryde deduced Hux to be the spy and executed him on sight with a blaster rifle. Ren meanwhile conferred with Sidious over the Force; the Sith Lord threatened to turn his fleet against Ren if he betrayed their agreement, but Ren told Sidious he knew where Rey was going.
As I served you in the old wars, I serve you now.
After Ren renounced the dark side, Sidious gave command of the Final Order fleet to Allegiant General Enric Pryde.
; Ren bested Rey, but was distracted when his mother Organa reached out to him through the Force, allowing Rey to stab him with his own lightsaber before sensing Organa's presence. Rey healed her archenemy with the Force before leaving with his ship. Motivated by a memory of his late father, Han Solo, Ren renounced the dark side and reclaimed his identity as Ben Solo,
abandoning the First Order in the process.
Although Organa's sacrifice interfered with Sidious' plan, the Emperor was not deterred and instead refocused his efforts toward his granddaughter, Rey.
Pryde became highest ranking member of the First Order,
leaving him free to take his orders directly from the Emperor
Pryde was contacted by Sidious while on board the
having served the Emperor during the Galactic Civil War, pledged his allegiance and the First Order's to the Sith Lord,
who in turn granted Pryde control over the Sith fleet, starting a unholy alliance with the Sith Eternal.
With Pryde's support, Sidious decided that the time had come to deploy the Final Order throughout the galaxy. He summoned Pryde to Exegol and sent him a Sith Star Destroyer from the fleet,
to destroy Kijimi as a show of force against the Resistance. Following the
, Pryde oversaw the fleet, which was in the process of departure when the Resistance arrived prior to the
, the Sith fleet could not reinforce the First Order.
During the battle, Pryde had the source of a navigation signal that the fleet needed to deploy off world switched from a
on Exegol to a beacon on his command ship. However, a Resistance
made landing on Pryde's command ship. Former stormtroopers of
as they fought against Sith troopers that landed to defend the ship. The landing team successfully knocked out the navigation tower and retreated, but the First Order personnel were able to reset it. At the same time Darth Sidious, after healing himself, attacked the Resistance and galactic forces, but he was stopped by Rey.
She deflected Sidious' lightning back towards him, causing the Emperor to disintegrate and be destroyed at last, preventing the rebirth of the Sith. Meanwhile, former stormtroopers Finn and Jannah stayed behind on the hull of the ship and turned the ship's own turbolasers against it, killing Pryde and destroying the
, and with it, the navigation signal, preventing the remaining Sith Star Destroyers from launching off of Exegol and reinforcing the First Order. Finn and Jannah narrowly escaped aboard the
exploded and plunged to Exegol's surface.
People are rising up all over the galaxy. Poe. We did it.
The Battle of Exegol was followed by a galaxy-wide uprising against the First Order.
In the aftermath of the Battle of Exegol, the First Order's forces came under attack by the populations that they had subjugated. Inspired by the victory of the Resistance and their rallied citizens' fleet, people
all over the galaxy against the First Order, including on
The First Order fell across the galaxy, and was ultimately defeated in the war.
The First Order bought death and tyranny with them out of the Unknown Regions.
The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
Beaumont Kin following the end of the war said the First Order brought death and tyranny with them out of the Unknown Regions.
With the war over, the galaxy's population began the long process of rebuilding as many First Order officers were captured and questioned by the Resistance in its immediate aftermath, which was recorded in the historian
The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
, where he stated that the First Order bought death and tyranny with them out of the Unknown Regions. However, although Kin expressed satisfaction that the capture of numerous Imperial war criminals would see these individuals finally face justice for their atrocities, he also expressed his belief that the Resistance had a moral duty to help the countless young officers and stormtroopers that the First Order had raised inside its neo-Imperial doctrine from near-birth.
Our differences make us vulnerable. Vulnerable to misrule, corruption, to getting mired in bureaucracy instead of effecting real change. Stability ensures progress for everyone. That's the whole point of government.
The Supreme Leader wielded absolute power and authority over the First Order.
The Supreme Leader was a self-appointed position with absolute power over the First Order
who delegated power to a number of high-ranking officers and
, effectively removing any distinction between military and state. This formed an upper cadre of high-ranking officials, the
, who had the authority to govern the First Order in the Supreme Leader's name. As Supreme Leader, Snoke was content to focus on spiritual matters, ceding control of military matters to generals and the shaping of the First Order's public image to
masterminds. However, any and all alterations to the strategy required the Supreme Leader's approval, with personal interests regarded as secondary to orders from the Leader, while a "commanding triumvirate" of the First Order existed consisting of Kylo Ren, General Armitage Hux, and Captain Phasma, the leaders of
Unbeknownst to even the highest echelons of the First Order, however, Snoke was in fact an artificial creation engineered by a hidden Sith cult, the Sith Eternal, under the directive of their master, Darth Sidious who returned from the dead, the Emperor of the Old Empire. Several addition clones of Snoke were stored on their hidden redoubt world, Exegol.
Snoke served Darth Sidious and the Sith Eternal as a means to groom Ben Solo as Kylo Ren. Snoke kept his homeworld and origins concealed from the First Order so as to avoid revealing himself to be an artificial creation; nonetheless, some came to realize that Snoke was subservient to an unseen force and master.
Due to the Supreme Leader's status in the First Order, an officer who had direct access to his person effectively wielded greater authority than their
They oversaw the colonization of the Unknown Regions and destruction of the last Jedi. Much like Darth Vader in the former Empire, Kylo Ren existed outside the formal command structure of the First Order and frequently came into conflict with military officials owing to his agenda consistently trumping military objectives. Kylo's placement in the hierarchy not only maintained fear within the Order's upper ranks but also intentionally resembled that of Darth Vader's during the reign of the Old Empire.
As a result, Ren was regarded as "the exception" to everything by his rival General Armitage Hux.
It was the prerogative of the Supreme Leader to summon his subordinates at his pleasure, as well as to administer punishment to those who failed him.
Supreme Leader would call conference to discuss goals for the First Order.
The Supreme Council was established under Supreme Leader Kylo Ren as an advisory board to replace the former triumvirate. It was formed by high-ranking members of High Command who served as
to Ren and had direct access to the highest levels of authority in the First Order, including the Supreme Leader. The council's purpose was to chart and implement the ongoing galactic conquest and plan the future of governing the galaxy. It was composed of Allegiant General Enric Pryde, Admiral
, and Domaric Quinn, allowing Ren to focus on spiritual matters as his predecessor had.
Ren anticipated the council would be filled with infighting, to which he considered it good for his reign, as he preferred that they direct their energies against each other, thereby diminishing their chances of uniting against him.
The First Order lacked a traditional planetary capital, preferring mobile headquarters such as the
Starkiller Base, a superweapon constructed within the planet Ilum,
hosted the largest military deployment in the First Order. However, it was not considered the official capital of the First Order because of Supreme Leader Snoke's policy of keeping the Order's headquarters mobile.
Although various officers and allies of the First Order argued for a planet to act as their capital, Snoke rejected this idea and refused to designate capital command to a world either under direct First Order control or within the Unknown Regions, instead opting to command his underlings from his mobile command post, the
My men are exceptionally trained, programmed from birth.
-class Star Destroyer was a successor to the
With its rapidly expanding military in clear violation of the Galactic Concordance and Republic laws, the massive militarization effort of the First Order continued throughout its tenure in the Unknown Regions. There, military bases and shipyards were constructed to churn out some of the technologically superior weapons and starfighters utilized by the Order's military. To avoid treaty restrictions banning the sale of weapons to the First Order, galactic arms manufacturers BlasTech Industries and Merr-Sonn Munitions, Inc. spun off a subsidiary known as the Sonn-Blas Corporation, which manufactured much of the First Order's weaponry within First Order space.
, along with its two-seated variant the TIE/sf space superiority fighter.
Additionally, Sienar-Jaemus Army Systems manufactured the widely used
which could deploy twenty stormtroopers into the frontlines of combat, while the Aratech-Loratus Corporation developed the
When planetside, the First Order utilized a wide range of four-legged walkers similar to Imperial AT-ATs,
. In violation of New Republic laws regarding capital ships,
-class Star Destroyer, which featured more than 1,500 turbolasers, point-defense laser cannons and
, and was specifically designed to evoke the fearful image of the Old Empire's
at its height, the First Order Navy established itself as a formidable flotilla of destructive potential. Owing to the New Republic's disarmament efforts, the First Order armada swiftly conquered the galaxy virtually unchallenged.
Holding to the legacy of the Old Empire, the First Order trained a new generation of stormtroopers.
, the First Order Stormtrooper Corps was a component of the military that employed the use of stormtroopers,
. It also utilized specialists including
and selectively had one of the three variants placed in every ten-member stormtrooper squad. Unlike the inconsistent academy standards of the previous Galactic Empire, training of the new generation of stormtroopers emphasized improvisation and counter-insurgency operations, including guerrilla tactics. With the First Order lacking the numerical superiority of the Galactic Empire, better-equipped and -trained soldiers resulted in higher trooper proficiency than the previous Galactic Empire. Soldiers were often trained on capital ships and underwent vivid simulations to create the most loyal soldiers, which was an extension of the ideas of Commandant Brendol Hux and his
It was strictly forbidden for a stormtrooper to initiate any contact with a officer in line with the First Order view on hierarchy.
Starkiller Base was a First Order superweapon capable of annihilating entire solar systems with a single blast.
One of its primary bases of operations was Starkiller Base, an
planet converted into a stronghold. Seeking to rule the galaxy through fear, the base housed a superweapon capable of destroying entire star systems by firing a planet-destroying beam through hyperspace, and was led by an unofficial triumvirate of General Armitage Hux, Kylo Ren, and Captain Phasma until it was destroyed in the Assault on Starkiller Base.
The scale of the First Order's military operation shocked complacent New Republic observers, who had believed such shows of force were merely part of local defense forces and ceremonial guards.
With the rapid expansion of the First Order's stormtrooper ranks and military capabilities, the Resistance believed that more trooper specializations were yet to be discovered, and ships even larger than the
During both the Cold War and open conflict with the Resistance that followed, the First Order also employed its sympathizers for patrol and surveillance duties, utilizing older
, which remained a symbol of terror across the galaxy, even decades after the fall of the Galactic Empire that had first manufactured it.
Technological development allowed the First Order to transform a planet into a superlaser platform.
The First Order continued the research into dark energy translations and hyperspace tunneling that had began under the Old Empire, where they repurposed an ice world for the development of a mobile superweapon called Starkiller Base, which used a dark energy called "
" as it offered a virtual unlimited power source,
this was made possible after securing logs from secret Imperial laboratories detailing a suitable planet needed with the correct specifications for what would become Starkiller Base with the colossal superlaser array itself built into the planetary crust and would to the Order represent a technological step forward in power.
s hyperspace tracker technology was developed for military use.
The First Order also developed the hyperspace tracker which was a type of
with the ability to detect starships traveling through hyperspace developed by First Order scientists. Originally studied by the Tarkin Initiative during the reign of the Empire, the technology was not established for several more decades when a team assembled by General Armitage Hux discovered how to implement the technology. The hyperspace tracker utilized a complex
, which enveloped arrays of databanks and computers in a localized hyperspace field that accelerated their calculation speeds to unimaginable rates.
Additionally, the First Order constructed a
, which was a form of miniaturized Death Star technology that was capable of firing a devastating energy pulse along a targeting
to cause a powerful detonation upon impact. Being a two-hundred-
cannon, it required support, such as having vehicles that were able to maneuver it into position during a siege and could be deployed to have a retractable stabilizing outrigger to ground its bulk.
The First Order had also developed huge data banks loaded with centuries of combat reports and
data. This was aided by a static hyperspace field that accelerated their processing power to an unprecedented level, which was overseen by the
that was the size of a planetary intelligence hub.
Terex. I'm an officer in their intelligence-gathering arm.
The First Order Security Bureau was the intelligence service of the First Order.
The First Order Security Bureau was the intelligence-gathering arm of the First Order, and was tasked with guarding state secrets and recovering information that had been stolen by the First Order's enemies.
Under Supreme Leader Snoke's directive, First Order agents and other First Order military forces were prohibited from seeking open hostility against forces aligned with the New Republic including the Resistance.
The First Order despised the New Republic as an illegitimate regime that tolerated disorder in the galaxy,
while the Republic did not officially recognize the First Order as a government,
and instead viewed the Order as an ill-organized, poorly equipped, and badly funded group of Imperial loyalists.
As a result, the Republic maintained an almost non-existent relationship with the First Order, resulting in ignored diplomatic protests and observers being denied access; an example of this was during the First Order
, to which the galactic government objected. However, the First Order informed them that the matter was an internal affair, which the Republic accepted.
In an effort to subvert the New Republic, the First Order also channeled funds through shell and third-party corporations in the
like Erudo Ro-Kiintor, who blocked motions advocating sanctions against the First Order and increasing support for the New Republic Defense Fleet.
Consequently, the First Order's main military adversary was the Resistance, a private military organization founded by General Leia Organa in response to the Republic's unwillingness to take action against the Order.
The First Order saw its primary mission as restoring order to a lawless galaxy and viewed the Republic and Resistance as obstacles to achieving these goals.
Prior to the fall of the New Republic, the First Order used diplomacy as a means of expanding its influence to other worlds.
Even though the First Order itself did not see the New Republic as a legitimate government,
the regime was willing to exploit its rival government's laws when possible. For example, the First Order could find blackmail in the form of discovering violations of Republic laws and use that discovery to its advantage; if the body with which the First Order was negotiating was not willing to agree to its terms, the First Order might threaten to inform the New Republic of actions, such as sanction violations, that body was responsible for. Alternatively, the First Order could use that possible blackmail as a counter to any threat of revealing First Order coercion; if the party wanted to reveal the First Order's actions, the First Order possessed the knowledge to damage that other body's standing.
In the era before open warfare, the First Order would attempt to complete their objectives through diplomacy before military action.
The First Order was also known to have dealings with other entities like the Corporate Sector Authority,
and Benathy kingdom, which the First Order attempted negotiations with before outright annexing after a battle.
The First Order also established an alliance with the Warbird pirate gang while also attempting to make inroads with the government of the
which they intended to use as a staging ground for their further operations.
conflict, the First Order funded Warbird gang and supported its raids on the
, all while attempting to negotiate with the
on the promise that a First Order security detail could prevent those same raids.
Captain Doza, the governing figure of the
, initially rejected these attempted inroads,
much to the frustration of the First Order.
In one meeting with Doza, Major Vonreg offered protection from the pirate raids and a supply of fuel, only for Doza to counter that Vonreg was effectively attempting to coerce him. While Doza threatened to report the meeting as an act of coercion, Vonreg threated to, in turn, report Doza's own underworld dealings to the New Republic, which violated New Republic trade sanctions.
Meanwhile, among individuals that continued to harbor sympathies for the Imperial state, the First Order and its claims to being a legitimate successor to the Galactic Empire was a matter of dispute. Although some veterans from the Imperial Military—such as Captain
—saw the Order as being a continuation of the
regime that such individuals proceeded to join,
that a significant number of other individuals, while they identified as being Imperial, harbored little affinity for the military junta that sought to reclaim the Empire's legacy, regarding the Order as an "upstart." Some who had come to disagree with the Empire—like the warlord
—even proceeded to oppose the First Order, joining the Resistance in its efforts to fight the neo-Imperial rule.
We have learned from the mistakes of the Empire—They were too
It is requested that this article section
Please improve it in any way that you see fit, and remove this notice once the article section is more complete.
About thirty years after the Battle of Endor, the First Order launched a preemptive attack on the Hosnian system in order to destroy the Republic and force the wider galaxy into submission. Later, the First Order successfully destroyed the Resistance's base on D'Qar. However, the remaining Resistance forces were able to evacuate
and continue their fight against the First Order.
Under Supreme Leader Snoke, the First Order military rapidly expanded into the galaxy to wrestle control of space,
taking full advantage of the destruction of the New Republic and the collapse of whatever remained of the government.
The expansion effort was carried on under the rule of Supreme Leader Kylo Ren, who further led the Order as an incredibly aggressive, punishing body. To Ren, the First Order needed to evolve beyond even the policies of the Empire, which he described as being "too lenient." As such, even the once neutral Fondor shipyards were nationalized by the First Order. Mere contact with the Resistance was regarded as an act of treason worthy of such a revocation of tolerance.
Our goal is galactic peace through absolute order.
In the First Order, disloyalty was regularly punished with public executions.
There was no line between the military and justice in the First Order, which had a merciless attitude towards treason among other things, where it dispensed
on anyone with even slight loyalty issues per
; this was done as several public executions with the executioners coming from the ranks of the Stormtrooper Corps anonymously in rotations, with it being considered an effective method of stormtrooper training. Unlike most stormtrooper variants, they were not from a specialist unit, but were instead randomly picked among regular stormtroopers for that day depending on various assignments and their identity was left anonymous.
Assigned to keep order on worlds within First Order territory, a specialized variant of the standard stormtrooper were trained in riot-control tactics and given non-lethal equipment to suppress any disorder,
as well as some lethal weapons, such as the
, in case situations spiraled out of control.
as a form of punishment by turning someone into a cyborg to ensure loyalty, as was the case with rogue agent Terex.
The First Order would also dismiss any strike action and would send in stormtroopers to enforce and "restore order" as part of a law and order operation, and would simply kill any negotiators to resolve any strike.
The First Order made it illegal to even communicate with the Resistance and considered it an act of treason that would result in being executed,
and the act of speaking ill of the Supreme Leader was determined as a crime.
It is the task of the First Order to remove the disorder from our own existence, so that civilization may be returned to the stability that promotes progress. A stability that existed under the Empire, was reduced to anarchy by the Rebellion, was inherited in turn by the so-called Republic, and will be restored by us. Future historians will look upon this as the time when a strong hand brought the rule of law back to civilization.
The First Order was a totalitarian fascist society located inside the Unknown Regions.
citizens of the First Order believed in an Imperially-skewed version of galactic history
neo-Imperialist-based political ideology. That ideology's values were based on a fanatical devotion to the totalitarian notions of "order," violent disdain for the New Republic and democracy,
Under the guidance of Imperial veterans, along with approved literature, vids, and mandatory viewings of morale sessions twice a day for stormtrooper cadets, officers learned of their glorious past and how they had been robbed of it by terrorists and rebels, who later called themselves the New Republic.
A cultural divide existed within the First Order between loyalists to the "Old Empire" and the younger generation of First Order recruits.
Despite the guiding hand of old-style Imperials in forming the First Order,
the First Order's relationship with the Old Empire was a controversial subject even within the government.
A culture clash emerged within the government's ranks between those old Imperial loyalists and the younger generation, who were much more dismissive of the fallen Empire and, in particular, Emperor Palpatine for the failure of the old Imperial state. The younger generation effectively believed in a vision of the Empire without need for the emperor himself, which created problems when Palpatine re-emerged
The fallen Galactic Empire, overall, had a strange place in First Order culture
and a failed institution that needed to be grown past.
The presence of old loyalists such as Allegiant General Enric Pryde
and Agent Terex, who openly longed for an outright return of the Empire, was counteracted by the likes of Captain Phasma
and Kylo Ren, whose personal ideology of "letting the past die" spoke to the First Order's attitude to the empire that preceded it.
General Domaric Quinn, despite his prior service in the Empire,
stood politically with the younger generation.
While many of the old hands among the First Order officer corps, those who had once served during the Imperial Era, believed the First Order would restore the Empire to power, younger generations believed differently. General Armitage Hux, although raised to admire the accomplishments of the former Empire, believed that the war with the Rebel Alliance had been lost because of the internal flaws that existed inside the Imperial state. As a result, Hux saw the First Order as a more refined and pure version of what the Empire sought to become, but never achieved.
Similarly, Phasma disagreed with Terex about his comparing the First Order to the Empire, claiming that the former was purer than the latter had ever been, having been put through the crucible and emerged stronger as a result.
The First Order depicted itself as a strong, powerful force that alone could hold back chaos and corruption.
Many within the First Order believed only they could have the power necessary to wrestle the galaxy from a path of chaos and corruption.
While the New Republic's corruption and ineffectiveness was plain to see across the galaxy, from its citizens to the Resistance and the First Order,
the First Order claimed its fascist policies were the answer the galaxy needed
while, in secret, actively contributing to the Republic's decline through its agents in the Senate.
The New Republic's corruption was one of the First Order's most potent weapons, as they ensured their agenda met with no interference from the Senate. The First Order's citizens saw this as proof the Rebellion was built on false promises, and that rebels could only tear down a government, not build one.
All the while, however, First Order officers were driven by ego
damaging the overall mission of the state in the name of their personal pride.
A large number of individuals in the First Order were non-human aliens who were effectively second-class citizens. This was apparent in the First Order propaganda and labor policies.
Pre-recorded speeches often filled the airwaves, in which General Armitage Hux commented on instances of the Republic's depravity, including famines on
, the brutal suppression of the people of
, and unchecked alien advances throughout the Outer Rim. Following these reports were stories of First Order victories such as liberating labor camps on
. Despite these patriotic functions and rallies, the First Order heavily relied on the brutal suppression of dissent and unpatriotic activities. Riot control stormtroopers were specially trained to quash insurrection, with live-fire dispersal of protesters permitted. Industrial unrest such as the
were blamed on New Republic agents. According to the First Order, the Jedi were officially extinct, and it was forbidden to pronounce Kylo Ren's birth name by order of Supreme Leader Snoke.
To boost morale, the First Order utilized a commemorative
, issuing armbands bearing the names of famous units and heroes of the Galactic Civil War. Many in the military believed that despite being outnumbered by the New Republic Starfleet, their technological superiority was so complete that even their smaller navy stood virtually unchallenged.
The First Order conscripted human children, and indoctrinated them with state propaganda, ensuring absolute loyalty and devotion to its cause.
The First Order had no qualms with inducting children into direct combat.
The most infamous example of the latter was the stormtroopers of the First Order, which forcibly subjected any children of worlds conquered by the First Order to military training.
Because the First Order trained its soldiers from childhood, several members had very high ranks despite their youth technically making them closer to junior officers, in contrast to the Empire's
, which promoted patriotism without subjecting its members to direct combat.
with a fanatical devotion to it, training them to prioritize victory over their own survival.
However brutal, the First Order's recruitment methods were lauded by their personnel and even by some of their conscripts. Many of the children the First Order recruited came from poor, impoverished Outer Rim worlds, where lawlessness was rampant and the residents had few to no prospects in life. Due to these horrific conditions, many of the people happily surrendered their children to the First Order willingly, either hoping they would have a better life or simply desiring payment and/or one or more fewer mouths to feed. Some freelance recruiters for the First Order agreed these children were better off under the First Order than on their homeworlds; one bragged that Athulla was such a "nightmare" the First Order was doing its children a favor.
One of these impoverished children inducted into the First Order's ranks, from the desert world of Jakku, would rise to become a respected officer in the First Order: Captain Cardinal. Other orphan children were recruited by force against their will while others were outright kidnapped from their families.
The Benathy submitted to the First Order after their god was slain by Kylo Ren.
Once recruited, citizens and soldiers of the First Order were indoctrinated to have a strong sense of duty, loyalty, and obedience to the state, and taught to forgo their personal desires for the greater good of the First Order. To this end, recruits abandoned their previous lives and identities upon their induction into the First Order and submitted to being identified by a numerical code. Senior officers and distinguished members of the Stormtrooper Corps, such as Phasma and Cardinal, were not expected to do so. First Order citizens were educated to believe it had been the pursuit of individual selfishness and desires that led the Rebel Alliance to topple the Old Empire. They were also taught that the rebels were short-sighted terrorists who could not see the benefit of the Old Empire, and instead started a war that forced it to crack down on personal liberties in response.
The Benathy were not only indoctrinated into First Order ideology but worshiped the totalitarian regime itself after the death of the Zillo Beast that they worshiped as their god.
Despite this doctrine, First Order military training heavily emphasized individual strength and improvisation, both physically and mentally. Training programs that were mandatory for all recruits beginning at a young age became progressively more severe as they grew to adulthood. The First Order, like the Empire before it, believed the strong naturally rose to power, while the weaker were left to serve their natural leaders.
Sometime during one's life within the First Order, they took an oath, one in which both high-ranking members such as General Artimage Hux or soldiers such as the former FN-2187 were cited as recipients, and in the First Order, renouncing that oath made them seen as something worse than even a Resistance fighter.
Pillaging entire worlds filled the First Order's coffers with various currencies, including coins minted from precious metals.
The First Order economy was tightly controlled, partly due to treaty restrictions that prevented major galactic corporations from selling arms to the First Order, owing to its Imperial origins. Nevertheless, they had dealings with the Aratech-Loratus Corporation,
, Sienar-Jaemus Fleet Systems, Kuat-Entralla Engineering, and Sonn-Blas Corporation—a subsidiary of the First Order military's major arms manufacturers, Merr-Sonn Munitions, Inc. and BlasTech Industries. The First Order plundered the worlds within its domain in order to fill its coffers with various currencies, particularly coins minted from precious metals, such as
, all of which had universal value as they could be melted down.
The credit was also a recognized currency in the First Order economy,
although by then coinage made from valuable metals was considered preferable to electronic currencies, especially in an era of instability.
Having amassed a vast treasury through conquest and plunder,
the First Order used its profits to purchase weapons from war profiteers on
They also channeled large sums of money through shells and third-party corporations with help from the Corporate Sector Authority.
To avoid the terms of the Galactic Concordance which included the sale of weapons to the Order, arms manufacturers
opted to bypass these restrictions by forming a subsidiary known as the Sonn-Blas Corporation, which manufactured all weapons within First Order space, while
would develop spacecraft and vehicles to the Order.
The First Order upheld a number of factories and mines.
The airwaves infrastructure in the First Order was under full state oversight and had tight restrictions and censorship imposed on it, which were often filled with pre recorded speeches in line with military objectives, this was there-for used by the ruling junta to maintain its control of the masses by using propaganda.
The First Order utilized a form of holographic technology that could show the user in full color and lacked any scan lines as part of its communications systems.
traffic throughout the galaxy, this was to help identify trends and weaknesses that the First Order could use to further their goals, it could also be used to dispatched orders to agents operating within both New Republic and independent space.
also held industrial capabilities including research labs and factories onboard, this housed departments for conception, research and well-stocked raw materials reserves, eight durasteel foundries as well as an asteroid mining complex for harvesting raw materials directly from asteroid fields, as well as state-of-the-art production lines that could not be cut off from supply lines. It also had at least eight droid manufacturing facilities.
First Order was located in the Unknown Regions.
The territory ruled over by the First Order was identified simply as "First Order Space."
Initially, the territory of the First Order was located in the large, unexplored Unknown Regions to the west of the Core. An area of space outside of the New Republic's supervision, it served as the First Order and its associates' refuge.
The overall territory was known as First Order Space
with the emerging power having expanded across the vast swaths of space left untouched for millennia by galactic explorers,
Numerous shipyards, bases, and research facilities were also built on newly explored star systems and colonized worlds as the Order slowly expanded and plotted its eventual return to the galaxy at large.
The First Order undertook a major offensive against several of these kingdoms to seize their worlds and resources to fuel their rise.
The First Order also expanded into the Outer Rim Territories
through the claiming of a bloc of star systems that seceded from the New Republic
The Centrists, a political faction in the Galactic Senate,
wanted a more centralized government than the one offered by the New Republic. As a result, the systems that identified with Centrist politics joined the First Order, marking its official formation as a galactic government.
At the time when the Centrists called for secession, the planets that supported their political goals included
The Trans-Hydian Borderlands served as a neutral zone between First Order Space and the New Republic during the Cold War.
A narrow region of neutral systems known as the Trans-Hydian Borderlands existed between New Republic and First Order space as a result of the Cold War between the two galactic powers, with peace negotiations leading to its service as a formal buffer zone. Despite frequent First Order incursions into Republic space, the Galactic Senate did not wish to spark a conflict, and thus was limited to formal diplomatic protest.
First Order assets, including galactic arms-manufacturing corporations such as BlasTech Industries and Merr-Sonn Munitions, Inc.'s Sonn-Blas Corporation subsidiary, took root and operated from within the region to evade the arms-selling restrictions mandated by First Order–New Republic treaty.
the First Order assumed control over the Benathy kingdom, which ruled over an area of Wild Space.
The First Order also made efforts to expand into the
within the borderland by covertly supporting
, only for Resistance personnel to oppose those efforts via an
In the immediate leadup to the First Order-Resistance War, a number of planets that were not yet part of the First Order government considered joining it in return from the security the First Order promised.
The First Order will control all the major systems within weeks.
The First Order increased its territorial extent from the Unknown Regions
through galactic conquest after the New Republic
At the unveiling of Starkiller Base, General Armitage Hux had promised that every system in the galaxy would bow to their regime with the New Republic's demise.
Indeed, Rey knew that the First Order would claim every one of the galaxy's major systems in a matter of weeks
the subsequent destruction of which had not become public knowledge.
Hux's words about a galaxy-scale surrender contained great truth
as planets surrendered to the incoming First Order,
yet the regime would need to deal with cases of rebellion from planets and whole star systems during its reign over the galaxy.
With its conquest of the galaxy, the First Order's military presence extended to various inhabited worlds, including Bespin, Jakku, and Endor.
Kijimi was also conquered and placed under military occupation. No longer required to observe treaties with a fallen government, the First Order deployed its stormtroopers across the galaxy, making the white-armored soldier a common sight once more.
That all came out of conversations about what would have happened if the Nazis all went to Argentina but then started working together again? What could be born of that? Could The First Order exist as a group that actually admired The Empire? Could the work of The Empire be seen as unfulfilled? And could Vader be a martyr? Could there be a need to see through what didn't get done?
and was developed through conversations amongst the production team. According to
, the film's director, the team wondered what would have happened if the
started working together again. Abrams hinted that the First Order would therefore be a group that admired the Galactic Empire and felt that its work was unfulfilled.
The First Order's exact nature during the development of the film was kept secret since the film's announcement. On
Twitter and GooglePlus accounts unveiled an image of the First Order congregating at Starkiller Base.
said the First Order uniforms were designed to look severe, "very hard edge, very broad shoulders, very angular, geometric." He cited inspiration from French fashion designer
Moving Target: A Princess Leia Adventure
Age of Resistance - Supreme Leader Snoke
Galactic Adventures Storybook Collection
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: A Junior Novel
Choose Your Destiny: A Maz's Castle Mission
Join the Resistance: Attack on Starkiller Base
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: A Junior Novel
The Last Jedi: Rose and Finn's Secret Mission
Choose Your Destiny: A Finn & Poe Adventure
Flight of the Falcon, Part 5: Grand Theft Falcon
Star Wars Adventures: Flight of the Falcon
Black Spire: Return to a Shattered Planet
Star Wars: Tales from the Galaxy's Edge – Last Call
Tales from Wild Space: Mattis Makes a Stand
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel
Databank A-Z: Imperial Future Council–Inquisitorius
Databank A-Z: InterGalactic Banking Clan–Jakku
75101 First Order Special Forces TIE Fighter
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Databank A-Z: Queen Jamillia–Jedi Temples
Databank A-Z: Kyber Crystals–Laser Cannons
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: Incredible Cross-Sections
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: New Adventures
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
Databank A-Z: Petranaki Arena–Proton Torpedoes
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: Head-to-Head
Highlights of the Saga: Assault on Jakku
Highlights of the Saga: Infiltrating Starkiller Base
Secrets of Spaceflight: Smuggling Partnerships
Highlights of the Saga: The Raid on Takodana
Highlights of the Saga: Striking at the New Republic
Weapons & Uniforms: Starkiller Base Personnel
Weapons & Uniforms: Inhabitants of Jakku
Highlights of the Saga: Assault on Starkiller Base
Databank A-Z: Sabe–The Separatist Council
Weapons & Uniforms: First Order Fleet Personnel
Star Wars: X-Wing Deluxe Book and Model Set
Highlights of the Saga: The Search for Lor San Tekka
Weapons & Uniforms: D'Qar Resistance Base Personnel
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
Highlights of the Saga: The Hunt for Luke Skywalker
Weapons & Uniforms: Heroes of the Resistance
Highlights of the Saga: Help from an Old Friend
Entertainment Weekly's Ultimate Guide to Rogue One
Databank A-Z: Trident Assault Ship–Turbolasers
Highlights of the Saga: Oddy Muva's Revenge
Highlights of the Saga: Luke's Journey in the Force
Star Wars Super Graphic: A Visual Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
Databank A-Z: Vibroblades–Cikatro Vizago
Star Wars: Geektionary: The Galaxy from A - Z
Star Wars: A-wing Deluxe Book and 3D Wood Model
Star Wars: The Last Jedi Activity Book with Stickers
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Heroes of the Galaxy
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Incredible Cross-Sections
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Ultimate Sticker Collection
Behind the Cameras: Evolution of Stormtroopers
Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles
The Last Jedi: Rose Tico: Resistance Fighter
Star Wars: Resistance Bomber Book and 3D Wood Model
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Star Wars: Scum and Villainy: Case Files on the Galaxy's Most Notorious
First Order Test Pilot — TIE/vn Silencer
Starfighter Aces: Poe Dameron — Black Leader
Starfighter Aces: Jessika Pava — Always in Control
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia, New Edition
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
The First Order 4-Pack (Mountain Trooper)
Logistics Division Pilot — Resistance Transport
Superweapons? The False Economies of Scale
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
Rebel Starfighters Owners' Workshop Manual
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Galactic Guide
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
The Art of Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker
Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge: Traveler's Guide to Batuu
Every Ship in the Star Wars Sequel Trilogy
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
"The Prisoner" Episode Guide | The Mandalorian
Snoke & Mirrors: Emperor Palpatine's Top 5 Proxies
Republic, Rebel, and Resistance Starfighters
The Final Order and the Battle of Exegol
Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy
SWCA 2022: 7 Things We Learned from the Lucasfilm Publishing Behind the Page Panel
Go Beyond The Spires in Virtual Reality: Making of ILMxLab's Tales From The Galaxy's Edge SWCA 2022
Inquisitor Novel Revealed, and More Highlights from the Lucasfilm Publishing Panel
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
Meet the Cast and Creators Mixing Things Up with
Reads Picks For Every Type of Reader in Your Life
Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy
SWCJ 2025: 14 Reveals From Hasbro's Panel
Explained: Episodes 4-6 - "Ever Been to Ghorman?", "I Have Friends Everywhere", and "What a Festive Evening"
Never-Before-Seen Art Celebrates 20 Years of Lucasfilm Animation at San Diego Comic-Con 2025
NYCC 2025: All the News and Reveals from the Lucasfilm Publishing Panel
Strap in Starfighter, Star Wars is Taking Over in Fortnite: GALACTIC BATTLE!
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy
: J.J. Abrams explores 'Who IS Luke Skywalker …?'
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
states that the First Order was publicly formed five
. Therefore, the First Order's official formation must have happened in
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
Snoke & Mirrors: Emperor Palpatine's Top 5 Proxies
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: Incredible Cross-Sections
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: A Junior Novel
Choose Your Destiny: A Finn & Poe Adventure
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Incredible Cross-Sections
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: A Junior Novel
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
member during the events of Episode IX, then
"The First Order assembles. #TheForceAwakens"
'Star Wars' Costume Designer Breaks Down 'The Force Awakens'
Early rebellion against the Galactic Empire