The holocrons contain the most closely guarded secrets of the Jedi Order.
were information-storage devices used by both the
that contained ancient lessons or valuable information in
form. They appeared as palm-sized, glowing polyhedrons of
material and hardware, and could only be activated and used through
. Only someone who's strong in the Force can open it.
Holocrons were information-storage devices that could fit in the palm of the hand. Many were evenly proportioned polyhedrons, with facets made from a
material. Some had transparent outer shells that allowed their users to perceive their inner mechanisms, and they glowed when activated.
were pyramids or tetrahedrons. They functioned similarly to their Jedi counterparts, and contained the ancient secrets of the
contained their tracts. Although their function and appearance were similar to the Jedi holocrons, unlike them, they could be accessed even by the most unskilled
Holocrons acted as repositories of vital, sensitive knowledge and wisdom pertaining to the nature and use of
, a mystical energy field that connected all living things in
. Data playback typically took the form of an interactive
resembling the person who recorded the information. Given the sensitive nature of the lessons they contained, many such devices were equipped with a security mechanism that granted access only to those keenly
with the Force. Additionally, many holocrons could only be activated if paired with a specific
When the Force was correctly used to open a holocron, it would physically manipulate its various mechanical parts to grant the user access to its data.
Each of these individual parts was imbued with the power of the Force, and could provide some functionality even if they were removed from the holocron, such as being able to remotely manipulate the data of another holocron or track down the location of certain Force-sensitive individuals.
If a Jedi holocron and a Sith holocron were opened together by a
and be able to answer any question the users desired. Holocron fusions were incredibly uncommon, due to the rarity of having a lightsider and darksider work together, and by the
knowledge of the practice was mostly lost.
Every holocron is unique, based on the teachings held inside. You have to hear what it's trying to tell you before it will open.
Is it speaking Huttese? Because I only know like three words in Huttese, and two of them are curse…words.
hundreds of Jedi holocrons were made. Valuing those artifacts both for their invaluable lessons and historical significance,
. The most valuable specimens were locked away in the restricted
A dodecahedral holocron known as the Great Holocron
to steal one of these artifacts from the Vault, specifically the
, holocrons became scarce remnants of a bygone era.
However, Imperial agents trained in the dark side of the Force, such as the
, occasionally sought both Jedi and Sith holocrons in hopes of obtaining information that would aid in the destruction of their adversaries.
obtained a number of Jedi holocrons that he kept on
These were later taken by Darth Vader to further impede possible
In the early ages of the Galactic Empire. At the planet Bogano.
had trained his own students in the Jedi arts, he had holocrons at his
. Furthermore, he used one to teach one of his students, Hennix.
However, they were originally developed by
crafted three holocrons (a cubic one, a pyramidal one, and a dodecahedral one) to be photographed for page 29 of the Legends reference book
Star Wars: Attack of the Clones: The Visual Dictionary
All three props have since reappeared in canon reference books, including
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
These props are now housed in the collection of
Real-life holocron replicas are available for sale at
The High Republic: Tears of the Nameless
The High Republic Adventures – Echoes of Fear
The High Republic Adventures – Echoes of Fear
The High Republic Adventures – Echoes of Fear
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Secret Jedi: The Adventures of Kanan Jarrus: Rebel Leader
Maul: A Star Wars Rebels Cinestory Comic
The Mighty Chewbacca in the Forest of Fear!
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Tales from Wild Space: The Blue Brothers
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
"Holocron Heist" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Cargo of Doom" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Children of the Force" Episode Guide - The Clone Wars
Databank A-Z: Imperial Future Council–Inquisitorius
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Databank A-Z: Queen Jamillia–Jedi Temples
Highlights of the Saga: Raid on the Jedi Temple
Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles
Star Wars Lightsabers: A Guide to Weapons of the Force
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Republic, Rebel, and Resistance Starfighters
Obi-101: Everything You Need to Know About Obi-Wan Kenobi
Analyzed: 5 Highlights from Episode 5, "The Axe Forgets"
Star Wars: The High Republic: Chronicles of the Jedi
Star Wars: Dawn of Rebellion: The Visual Guide
Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy
Star Wars: The Acolyte: The Visual Guide
LEGO Star Wars: Build Your Own Adventure
Star Wars Lightsabers: A Guide to Weapons of the Force
Tales from Wild Space: The Blue Brothers
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
The Secret Jedi: The Adventures of Kanan Jarrus: Rebel Leader
Lightsabers, Droids, and Holocrons—The Incredible, Immersive Merchandise of
Star Wars: Attack of the Clones: The Visual Dictionary