It is requested that this article, or a section of this article, be expanded.
. Once the improvements have been completed, you may remove this notice and the page's listing. The following needs expanding on: all sections
For over a thousand generations, the Jedi knights were the guardians of peace and justice in the old Republic. Before the dark times, before the Empire.
, often called a Jedi Knight, was a devotee to the ways of the
, the Jedi aspired to attain a state of inner tranquility through calmness and
while avoiding emotions affiliated with the
, such as anger and hatred. Nevertheless, Jedi philosophy did not forbid a Jedi from acting in self-defense or in the defense of others, and they were colloquially known as
. To that end, a Jedi's only possession was their
, a symbol of their role as guardians of peace and justice.
. The Jedi and the Republic's ideals brought them into
with an order of dark side wielders known as the
. Emerging victorious from their wars with the ancient Sith, the Jedi carried on in their duty as peacekeepers for over a
of conflict, the Jedi discovered that the Sith had deceived them and engineered the war to restore them back to power. However, just before the Sith were defeated, the Jedi were betrayed by one of their own—the
, who had been seduced to the dark side and anointed
the Jedi in one fell swoop, reducing the order from thousands of Jedi Knights guarding the galaxy, to a handful of survivors cast into
The Sith ruled the galaxy through the Empire for a
, but did not succeed in completely wiping out the Jedi Order. As a result,
, respectively. Skywalker, the son of Vader, was also taught the ways of the Jedi by
bed, Yoda gave his final apprentice the mandate of passing on his lessons to a new generation of Jedi.
, who sacrificed himself to save his son by killing his
Sidious, thereby destroying the Sith and fulfilling the prophecy of the Chosen One.
, Skywalker worked to rebuild the Jedi Order by training a dozen apprentices, including his young but powerful nephew,
, but Solo fell to the dark side and became Kylo Ren, apprentice of
, Ren and Snoke sought to destroy Skywalker, who, in self-exile, briefly trained
in the ways of the Jedi until he sacrificed himself to save the
himself to the galaxy, Ben Solo, the opposite in a
with Rey, was redeemed, and Rey sacrificed herself to
the phantom Sith Lord, preventing the rebirth of the Sith Order. Rey was saved from death by Solo, who gave his life for hers, allowing the Jedi to live on.
In order to master the ways of the Force, Jedi must forgo all attachment.
To be a Jedi was to live a life of selflessness and devotion to the light side of the Force.
focused on calmness and peace to channel their
to serve in the capacity of guardians of peace and justice in
Even so, the Jedi sought to preserve balance in the Force; the ancient prophecy of the
foretold of a being who would restore balance to the Force by destroying the
. In combat, whereas an enemy may grow impatient and rely on their overwhelming strength, a Jedi would
A Jedi used the Force for defense and knowledge rather than use it to gain power over others.
, a weapon with limitations, likewise symbolized the care a Jedi took wielding their gifts and that when a Jedi fights it is with intention and precision, ending conflict while injuring no more, or taking no more life, than the lightsaber's wielder chooses.
Always supposed to put the needs of others before their own,
and work to save others above themselves.
Like all people, Jedi were imperfect and always needed to strive to better themselves, meaning it was impossible to be a "perfect Jedi."
Because of their ability in the Force, a Jedi, even if they lacked a physical weapon, was never defenseless,
and some Jedi were capable of appearing after
The Jedi considered themselves instruments of the Force,
knowledge, the Force, and self-discipline were considered the three pillars of Jedi strength.
such as securing wealth or power, the Jedi focused their pursuits on learning, reaching enlightenment,
The Jedi believed that—no matter one's physical appearance—everyone was internally made up of light. Individuals who did not understand the Force took to calling Jedi "space wizards."
all Jedi belonged to, a Jedi was connected to the entire
As part of the Order, a single Jedi had the advantage of a structured community to rely on and gain confidence from.
, the Jedi were better as a group than on their own.
thought of the Order as something that proved that, in being a Jedi, he was part of something bigger than himself.
Indeed, the Jedi could rely on their Order in tough times, enabling an individual Jedi to act in a bold fashion and make large scale choices about spreading light. One enemy of the Jedi,
, thus regarded the Jedi Order as something the Jedi would tap into, much like their ability to tap into the Force itself.
The life of a Jedi was full of hardships.
to become a Jedi was difficult, according to
, and those who succeeded were faced with a hard life ahead.
Adherence to the Jedi way required a disciplined mind and a strong sense of commitment, and it was considered unbecoming of a Jedi to seek adventure or excitement.
therefore regulated the lives of individual Jedi, their actions and beliefs, and the policies of the Jedi Order. While the Code permitted compassion, attachment and possession were forbidden to the Jedi.
The Jedi believed that attachment led to jealousy, and greed in turn, and ultimately the fear of loss which was a pathway to the
Through the Force, the Jedi hoped to direct themselves through their passions, instead of acting in an impulsive manner.
Forgoing attachment was also considered essential to a Jedi's progress in mastering their
Despite the importance of non-attachment in the Jedi vow, there was disagreement on what that specifically meant.
Some Jedi took it to mean they needed to suppress their emotions, such as vanquishing love and discomfort from themselves, whereas others believed trying to master emotion went against the ideals of the Order. For the latter group of Jedi, emotions like love were centered upon the idea of letting go. Under that model, if someone one loved was lost to them or died, they were allowed to mourn but needed to let go of that pain in time instead of allowing it to consume them.
Indeed, the Jedi accepted death as a part of the natural course of life, believing that the deceased should be celebrated instead of mourned for becoming one with the Force.
Detachment was nonetheless one of the most difficult lessons for Jedi to learn, as it took practice and repetition to master. Learning the lesson—that, to be a Jedi, one needed to "let go"—multiple times over his long life,
was able to carry the belief to his deathbed after a lifespan of nine
, even accepting his death—the death of all life—as the way of the Force.
Indeed, the Jedi understood feelings like love to be natural; Jedi were allowed to feel these emotions,
but their task was to balance their strong feelings.
With an understanding of their strongest emotions, it was hoped a Jedi would analyze what, deep down, made them feel the way they did. Able to then address their underlining motivations, the Jedi could formulate the best possible path forward instead of allowing themself to act without thinking. Attachments like romance were understood to be distractions from the Jedi mission of spreading justice and the light side: it represented a person tying themself down to one attachment, rather than opening themself up to the galaxy as a whole. Bound only to the Force and the Jedi Temple, relationships to a Jedi needed to be carefully handled in the name of their service to the Force.
Close friendships still existed and were valued,
but a Jedi needed to understand their friends could be lost and need to be let go of at any given time.
People made holodramas about them, wrote stories. The Jedi were…
Throughout galactic history, anti-Jedi sentiment appeared amongst certain groups.
, Jedi were often seen as a noble order that protected the galaxy and the
Republic as the guardians of peace and justice.
, having the backing of a Jedi inspired confidence.
The skills associated with a Jedi Knight were revered and as such, their warrior prowess was known and respected to varies degrees from warrior-like cultures such as
Some outsiders had exaggerated views of the sheer power an average Jedi possessed and attributed them with being able to do things the Jedi themselves considered more to be like divine action.
was also present throughout their history, stronger in some periods than others.
The Sith aimed to purge the galaxy of the Jedi and their ways.
Other groups and factions emerged with anti-Jedi sentiments; various
, held a grudge against the Jedi for their perceived crimes against
also had a chilly relation with up until the later years of the Galactic Republic; early in its history, the Jedi Order had attempted to take in
spread stories of the Jedi, with some claiming the Jedi were miracle workers who used the power of levitation and "laser swords." Other E'roni, however, looked down on the Jedi as outsiders. Their rivals, the
, did not have stories of the Jedi but spoke of their "
" in a similar way to how the Jedi described the Force.
believed the Jedi abused the Force by using it, and thus promoted anti-Jedi sentiment and the belief that the order was the reason for much of the galaxy's suffering. They rose to prominence on the planet
during which time they began to spread their influence and beliefs across the
The Path declared that the Force did not belong to the Jedi, which was a claim the Jedi had never actually made.
As the Jedi Order evolved and changed to face the challenges that were current to the galaxy, the way its members acted also had a habit of changing and evolving with time,
which often could have an impact on their relationship with the public.
During the High Republic Era, the Jedi maintained the ideals of avoiding attachment
but made sure to show great acts of compassion towards those who were suffering, such as offering hugs to those who were grieving.
However, many Jedi active in the late Republic Era gave into their need to avoid attachments to a detrimental extent,
resulting in them instead offering proclamations of the Force and the greater good to those who were grieving, which often left those who were suffering with bitterness and the feeling that the Force users did not truly care.
When a Jedi Knight of the High Republic Era had acted in such a way to the young
behind so she could save him and the rest of a starship crew, it generated a lifelong hate for the Jedi in Greylark's heart. Rather than properly comfort the boy, the Jedi Knight had said his father's demise was the will of the Force before moving on with her duties. As he started to grow close to Jedi Knight
, he explained the story to her. While she understood what the Jedi Knight had meant, she knew it would not help Greylark to repeat it and instead affirmed to him that caring for grieving children was important to the Jedi, despite the other Knight's poor word choice.
As the Republic Era reached its end, however, the more distant approach won out,
with many Jedi adopting a more detached persona
that, unknowingly, created public dislike towards them.
Whereas the Jedi of the High Republic did not believe qualities like the age someone came to the Order at or their
count to be determining factors in whether someone could be a Jedi,
the later Jedi did overwhelmingly value these factors.
The High Republic Era also saw greater variance in Jedi lightsabers, with differing hilt designs and blade colors seeing greater use
when compared to their late Republic counterparts.
A shift in lightsaber design culture came during the High Republic Era's Nihil conflict, where the
-minded Jedi Order gave the order to only create simple
hilts: if there was to be great conflict, the Council reasoned that lightsabers would be lost and then replaced. As such, the Council ordered Jedi to only create the basic hilt design instead of more unique looks because basic battle sabers were faster to create and maintain in excess.
The hilts of late Republic lightsaber were largely the same and basic in design,
much like the lightsabers created under the battle saber order.
All the same, the later period of the High Republic Era had continued to see variance in lightsaber color.
The High Republic Jedi also acknowledged a Jedi needed to be more than their lightsaber,
whereas the late Republic Jedi declared a lightsaber was "[their] life."
Jedi of the High Republic Era each developed their own understanding of the Force and how to understand it,
with Jedi being allowed to take on the position of "
" to avoid the orders of the High Council and follow only the will of the Force. One
Beyond establishing temples across the galaxy and working those temples into each planet's culture and environment,
Jedi of the High Republic Era also made a true effort to live amongst the cultures they tried to protect. Instead of simply living in their temples most of the time
the Jedi of the High Republic called the galaxy overall their home,
and new missions across the galaxy as they traveled to meet and help the galaxy's cultures.
What was once a simple religious sect devoted to the light side of the Force evolved into the most influential group of peacekeepers in the history of the galaxy.
The first Jedi Temple was located on Ahch-To, a distant planet in the Unknown Regions of the galaxy.
The Jedi were an order of ancient origins, having been present in the galaxy for over
and outposts on numerous worlds throughout the galaxy, including
. The Jedi eventually came to align with the
Galactic Republic and owed their allegiance to the
For a time, the Jedi were addressed using the honorary title of "
," but the title fell out of use in the millennium before the High Republic Era, with only the
There have not been battles like these since the days of the Old Republic.
The Sith splintered from the Jedi to follow the dark side, spawning a rivalry that lasted for millennia.
from the order after advocating the use of the dark side of the Force, they gained followers which led to the creation of the Sith
The Jedi and Sith became bitter enemies,
engaging in a number of battles and wars like the
Another splinter group of Jedi emerged, calling themselves the
. Some records suggested they had hoped to give
to everyone in the galaxy, yet others believed that they may have killed Jedi
The Ordu Aspectu and the "orthodox" Jedi
. The treaty allowed the Ordu to continue their research into immortality, but gave the Jedi Order the right to inspect the research. The
, however, would result in the destruction of the splinter order and the Jedi inspectors: the leader of the Aspectu—a man named
—was able to download his mind into a computer, creating the
At another point in the Jedi Order's history, in the aftermath of the
on Ossus was destroyed at some point prior to the
At some point before the construction of the
and artifacts from the lost Great Library which made it to the
on Ossus was salvaged and transported to the Order's newer headquarters on Coruscant.
. The Jedi had little warning of the coming cataclysm and prioritized the artifacts from the
of the Great Jedi Library. Despite the efforts, they only managed to save a fraction of the artifacts housed on the planet, which made it to the Jedi Temple on the planet Coruscant via nearby
Also during the reign of the Old Republic, the Mandalorians, the
of the planet Mandalore, launched a number of wars, often coming into conflict with the Jedi.
Battles between the Mandalorians and Jedi dated back to the time of the
led the Mandalorians against the Jedi in a number of battles.
The world of Mandalore was devastated in the conflict between the Mandalorians and the Jedi.
The war against the Mandalorians ended in a decisive Jedi victory.
In the process, the surface of Mandalore was devastated
Also at some point, as recounted in legend, a Force-sensitive Mandalorian named
was inducted into the Jedi Order. His lightsaber, the
, was stored in the Jedi Temple on Coruscant after his death until members of
. The Darksaber went on to be used to cut down many Jedi
and unite the Mandalorian people as a symbol of leadership.
The Old Republic crumbled as a result of the Jedi-Sith wars, but its remnants and the Jedi still waged the
Ultimately, the Sith's greed for power caused them to turn on each other, which helped the Jedi
, secretly survived the destruction and continued the Sith by creating the
The Jedi would discover and then think they destroyed Bane's rule,
but the Sith continued to survive in secret under the Rule of Two.
The Jedi reached the pinnacle of their power and influence during the height of the Galactic Republic.
After the defeat and assumed destruction of the Sith, the Jedi Order enjoyed a political ascension and saw an increase in recruitment. During the so-called "
which had reinvented itself after the defeat of the Sith,
and role of being peacekeepers despite their limited numbers.
in particular was the height of the Jedi Order's power,
being a time of greatly expanded Jedi activity throughout the galaxy that even allowed them to stretch out far from the
During the era, the Jedi worked closely with the Republic.
, who both hoped to unite the galaxy. Even Jedi who were not currently working with
were expected to perform similar work, introducing themselves to and learning from local cultures, as well as looking for possible temple locations and Force-sensitive children. The Jedi hoped to prove themselves to the people of the
However, the Republic and Jedi's expansion into the Outer Rim brought them into conflict with the Path of the Open Hand cult, which believed the Jedi were actively hurting the galaxy by using the Force. As part of their campaign to root out the supposed abusers of the Force, the Path unleashed
The defeat of the Path would come with the
, during which the Path unleashed a number of Nameless against the Jedi. After the battle, Yoda and Jedi Master
decided to cover up the existence of the Nameless until more could be learned about the mysterious threat, reasoning that details about the beings getting out would be a danger to the Order. However, the decision
left later Jedi vulnerable to an enemy they were not prepared for.
Victory over the Path was seen as proof of how well the Jedi-Republic partnership worked out for the galaxy.
However, later in the High Republic Era, some Jedi, such as Master
, came to question whether it was right for the Jedi to work so closely with the Republic. In particular, Vitus pointed to the Night of Sorrow as a tragic event that had come about due to a joint Republic-Jedi effort.
Nevertheless, with the Republic seeking to bring the Outer Rim into its domain through projects like
, the Order agreed to establish outposts in the Outer Rim, establishing these outposts to provide help to people in the galaxy's wilder locations and to help explore these places. Prior to the
, these outposts and their three to seven Jedi occupants—operating separately from the Jedi Temple on Coruscant—became the only force for justice on the
During the High Republic, the foremost Jedi Master of the era,
held a rare Force power amongst the Jedi; able to detect the natural
among Force-sensitives, she could strengthen them into a
of many Jedi. She was also close with Knight
, whose experiments through trying different Force techniques helped expand the Order's knowledge of the energy field. Under the leadership of Kriss, Mann and her were among the hundred Jedi dispatched to the
, which began when fragments of the transport
began to fall upon the star system thanks to the machinations of the
, had been part of the Path of the Open Hand.
The Ro family would later remember "the faithful" as waging war with the Jedi because of their differing belief systems, believing the Jedi were unable to fulfill "balance" and were leading the galaxy to death.
To Marchion himself, the Jedi were not merely dangerous because they could use the Force; he believed their united Order gave them a structure to rely on, confidence, and a willingness to make large scale decisions, all in the name of spreading their light. Faced with an enemy who were therefore bold and strong, Ro, while not afraid of the Jedi, understood they would be a serious threat to his goals, which involved wiping them out. With Kriss using her network to inform her fellow Force-sensitives that the fragments contained living beings, the Jedi led the
to rescue the star system and those trapped aboard the starship remains before turning their combined attention towards a fragment containing liquid
. Despite the failure of their first attempt and the loss of several Jedi, the Force users—joined in focus by Jedi in other locations in the galaxy—ultimately ensured the fragment did not collide with an
, saving the system. Additionally, the effort was broadcasted to various other worlds; only those who hated the Jedi were angered by their success.
The peace of the Republic, maintained by the Jedi, was disrupted by the Emergences and the Nihil conflict.
into the Outer Rim, the Jedi Council believed the Jedi were going to be heavily needed in the region. Additionally,
conflict between the pirates and the Jedi
During the Nihil conflict, the Republic began to push the Jedi to more closely work alongside them, with
moving to insert themselves into the Jedi Council's affairs.
Torturing Greatstorm for a year, Ro also came to collect all pieces to a
he could use to unleash the Great Leveler. After the
, the Jedi tracked the Nihil to the planet
, only for Ro to unleash the Leveler during the
; Greatstorm was killed, with his body left to turn to stone that soon crumbled,
and Jedi Master Elzar Mann were left in states of shock, and Council member
Ro struck a further blow to the Jedi and Republic with the
, during which he deployed more Nameless. Unable to fight the creatures, the Jedi Order recalled all its members to Coruscant to strategize, only for Ro to
I remember a time when Jedi were not generals, but peacekeepers.
As time went by, the Jedi continued to be involved in a number of the conflicts that
faced throughout the so-called "Great Peace." Though these conflicts could at times force them to act as military officers,
the Jedi did not view themselves as soldiers.
The Jedi would also work as warriors, troubleshooters, and
for the Republic but claimed to be impartial judges. However, given that they were working for the Republic, trust in the Jedi was not the same for everyone. The citizens closer to the Core Worlds trusted them more than those in the Outer Rim Territories.
The Jedi became involved in conflicts like the
Rage… it fuels us. But it won't be enough to stop the Jedi alone. They have numbers on their side. And the faith of the Republic.
For the moment. In time, and with careful planning, they will lose both.
For generations the Sith plotted revenge on the Jedi for the defeat of their forebears.
Although the Jedi believed their sworn enemies to be extinct, the Sith had survived under the Rule of Two, influencing the galaxy from the shadows instead of battlefields. After around a thousand years of
the Sith Lord who held the rank of Master was
After betraying Plagueis by killing him in his sleep, Sidious sought to accomplish the Sith plan to bring the galaxy under his control as its
Sidious also had his own Sith apprentice,
. Due to his desire to kill Jedi, Maul killed Padawan
, but her death did not satisfy his bloodlust.
under Kaitis's name, Maul continued his hunt and killed the Force-sensitive
. Not wanting the Jedi to learn of his plans, Sidious brought Maul to
to teach him about patience. Maul experienced a
of a life where he was a Jedi before being surrounded by dozens of them, teaching him that their light side rivals had numbers and the respect of the Republic for the time being.
Sidious' public identity was Sheev Palpatine, the
. Living a double life allowed him to pursue political power in the Senate while conspiring to overthrow the Republic and its Jedi protectors as Sidious.
of the Republic to bring about his rule, so he ordered his pawns in the
, to negotiate an end to the blockade, Sidious ordered them killed, but the two Jedi
Due to the damage sustained during their escape, the
. On Tatooine, Jinn met Anakin Skywalker, a young Force-sensitive human who he came to believe was the Chosen One. In fact, thanks to his power in the Force, Skywalker won the
, which won him freedom from his slavery under
for the Royal Starship. Before leaving the planet, Jinn was suddenly
by Maul, who had been sent to Tatooine by Sidious. Jinn escaped, marking the first time a Jedi had contact with a Sith
During the Invasion of Naboo, the Jedi learned of the Sith's survival and the existence of the Chosen One.
On the Republic capital of Coruscant, the
were disturbed by the potential return of the Sith and unwilling to begin Skywalker's training, citing his fear and believing it could lead to the dark side. They then dispatched Jinn and Kenobi back to Naboo when Amidala chose to return, as she had only managed to call for an
after being deceived by Palpatine, which would soon lead to Palpatine's victory. During the ensuing
, Jinn and Kenobi engaged Maul in yet another duel, while Skywalker, joined by
. Skywalker eventually crashed aboard the
and, in an attempt to take out advancing
. The ensuing explosion rippled throughout the
, destroying the craft and therefore shutting down the entire
Elsewhere, Maul managed to kill Jinn while he was separated from Kenobi, though the Padawan then engaged Maul and cut the Sith Lord in half, ending the duel. In his dying breaths, Jinn asked Kenobi to train Skywalker, which the Jedi Council agreed to. Additionally, at the
spoke about the Sith, unsure whether it was the Sith Master or Sith apprentice who had been defeated.
Kenobi was promoted to be a Jedi Knight with Skywalker as his Padawan.
Though presumed dead, Maul had survived the duel. Sustained by his newfound hatred of Kenobi,
he was left in exile on the garbage world of
I am sure you are aware that the Jedi did not initiate the Clone Wars. Our only intention is to end it and restore peace to our galaxy.
What difference does it make who started the war, and who only wants to end it? No side is free of fault. It takes two to fight.
But is it worth killing for? Fighting for something doesn't necessarily mean that you have to destroy everything in your path. Only when you lay your arms down and pursue a course of non-violence, can you make this claim to me that the Jedi are peacekeepers.
The Jedi were too few in number to protect the Republic against an army of battle droids.
, a plot manufactured by the Sith. Several thousand
, the latter of whom was following Sidious's command. The political tensions boiled into a full-scale war on
Amidala to death. They were rescued by the arrival of a
soldiers recently discovered by Kenobi on the planet
, led by Yoda. In the subsequent actions of the
, the Jedi led the clones into battle against the
, but Dooku managed to escape from Kenobi, Skywalker, and Yoda. Thus, the battle had served to launch the
since the alleged extinction of the Sith.
The start of the war shook the balance of the Force.
Dooku informed his master that the war had begun, which satisfied Sidious, who said everything was going as planned.
The Jedi served as generals of the Grand Army of the Republic throughout the Clone Wars.
There were ten thousand Jedi in the galaxy before the Clone Wars,
but many were killed during the conflict,
who took the lightsabers of his victims as trophies.
During the war, Jedi Knights and Masters became the
, while their Padawans became lower ranking
The war against the Separatists was fought across the galaxy for three years,
during which the Jedi inspired creative thinking and independence in the clones.
and Skywalker respected the clones as individuals.
Anakin Skywalker was considered the greatest warrior the Jedi had during the war, becoming known as the "Hero With No Fear".
By fighting the Clone Wars, the Jedi, particularly younger members of the Order, ran the risk of losing their way by focusing on power to win.
Their new role as battlefield generals also made some people cast doubt on their role as "peacekeepers,"
, and other Republic citizens even coming to view the Jedi to be responsible for the war. Falling to the dark side and thinking her Order had fallen from the light to be an army that only benefitted the dark side, Offee arranged for a
, to take the fall. One of the few people to stand with Tano was Skywalker, who was Tano's master and friend. He uncovered and exposed Offee as the true culprit during
. Nevertheless, with her faith in the Order shaken, Tano left the Jedi to go on her own path,
but she remained on the light side and acted, according to
Meanwhile, Skywalker greatly missed his Padawan
and was frustrated with the Jedi Council, feeling they had betrayed his friend.
During the war, Skywalker gained prominence and recognition for his victories on the battlefield, being considered the greatest warrior of the Jedi Order during the Clone Wars.
. Like all of us, they failed to secure the peace. They were drawn into the war like everyone else, and their hands were
clean. If I can accept the blame for my part, they certainly earned their share, too.
for thousands of years they could have ruled the galaxy, and instead they chose to serve. They had their own vested interests, their own ways of politicking. But they believed their power came with an obligation to live humbly, to do good without asserting authority. Maybe they failed to live up to those ideals in the end. I haven't seen your evidence. What do
know about the extent of their betrayals? But they were good and they were ordinary and they were fallible, and even the most smug and arrogant were trying to hew to a tradition older than the Republic. They deserved better than to die at the hands of power-hungry old men who saw them as a threat.
deserved better than to lose another people, another religion, from the universe. All of us are poorer for their loss.
The Jedi deserve justice… or at least a decent funeral.
Having learned that the Supreme Chancellor was a Sith Lord, the Jedi moved to arrest Darth Sidious before his plans came to fruition.
, which was staged by Sidious, in order to lure Anakin to the dark side and eventually make the young Jedi his apprentice, Dooku was betrayed by his master who had him killed by Skywalker. Following the battle, Skywalker had visions of Amidala, who he had
, dying in childbirth. Shortly thereafter, Palpatine, who had long since befriended Skywalker to manipulate him, informed the Jedi Knight that he was in fact Darth Sidious, the Sith Master behind the war and the target the Jedi had been searching for. After Skywalker informed Windu of Palpatine's identity and deception, the Jedi Master led
. The mission ended in failure, with Sidious cutting down all but Windu, and Skywalker himself arriving just as Windu gained the upper hand on Sidious. Believing that the Sith possessed the power to save Amidala, Skywalker betrayed Windu by helping Sidious take him out, before betraying the Jedi as a whole and kneeling before the Sith Master. Thus, Sidious had used Skywalker's anger with the Council and fear of losing Amidala to turn him to the dark side of the Force, making the Jedi's own Chosen One into his new Sith apprentice, Darth Vader.
Through Order 66, the Sith initiated a galaxy-wide purge that rendered the Jedi virtually extinct.
, Sidious ordered the clone troopers across the galaxy to execute
which branded the Jedi and any clone who tried to help them as traitors who needed to be executed. Many of the clone troopers had befriended their Jedi leadership, but their loyalty was forcibly erased due to their biochips, which Sidious and Dooku had implanted in the clones during their youth. With Sidious issuing the order, this activated the clones' biochips, which brainwashed them into believing that the Jedi were traitors to the Republic, leading to them turning on their Jedi commanders.
Jedi across the galaxy were therefore betrayed and gunned down by their own soldiers. Additionally, Vader
into the Jedi Temple itself, murdering everyone, even the younglings, they found inside.
Though Order 66 only explicitly targeted the Jedi, other Force-sensitives would find themselves in its crosshairs; Maul and Tano were both targeted aboard the
"Rex," whose control chip had been removed by the former Padawan, fled aboard a
, as per the command of Sidious, who betrayed and orchestrated the Council's death, Sidious used Windu's strike against him as an excuse to brand the Jedi as traitors before vowing to hunt down the surviving members of the Order and
. Yoda tried to rescue the galaxy from the new Sith Emperor, but he was not able to kill Sidious, and went into exile. When Amidala confronted her husband on Mustafar, he was enraged to see Kenobi, who had secretly stowed away aboard her
, which ended when Kenobi left Vader to die near a lava river. A short time later, Amidala died in childbirth, with her two children,
, separated to keep them safe. Leia was taken to live with the
, while Luke was taken to Tatooine to live with his aunt and uncle,
, while being watched over by Kenobi. Meanwhile, Vader had survived as well and was given a
Immediately after his reconstruction, Sidious tasked Vader with taking a
The remaining Jedi were hunted by the Sith Lord Darth Vader, who was once the Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker.
Needing to find a Jedi who had survived the purge, Vader used the database on the Jedi
that ended with the Sith Lord killing the Jedi Master and flooding the
Thus, as Sidious ordered, Vader went to Mustafar to bleed the crystal to his will. Though it presented the Sith Lord with a vision where he returned to the light side of the Force, Vader rejected this and twisted the crystal to the dark side.
Meanwhile, word spread throughout the galaxy's population that the Jedi had apparently betrayed the Republic and that their Order had been destroyed for it.
investigation into the framing of the Jedi
on the belief that, if he could prove Palpatine's evidence against the Jedi was fabricated, the Imperial project would collapse and justice would be served to the Jedi. However, his designs fell apart with the death of the Separatist
had contained the evidence Organa hoped to use.
We seek a dangerous fugitive. This is no common anarchist but a devotee of the treasonous Jedi Order. Failure to turn over this traitor will result in a charge of sedition. Turn yourself in or everyone present shall face summary execution.
The Empire's official explanation for the end of the Clone Wars
the Jedi had been killed in massive numbers, with the Empire stating it was by the thousands, that the Jedi Temple had been the site of a battle, and that the few survivors had fled throughout space. However, they also claimed the Force had dispersed. Though this explanation was not universally accepted, most people in the galaxy accepted the destruction of the Jedi, just as they had accepted the sacrifices of the clones, if it meant the war was over. To
passed before, without much grief or mourning, the Jedi Order had almost entirely been reduced to a myth.
In fact, many celebrated the destruction of the Jedi,
having believed Sidious's claims of a Jedi rebellion
that firmly squared the galaxy's recent troubles on the Order.
Other citizens, meanwhile, simply blamed the Jedi for failing to prevent the Clone Wars or to more quickly end it.
Using fear, new laws, and its vast military, the Empire worked to crush surviving Jedi and their remaining supporters, creating such a fear about even discussing the Jedi that knowledge of them died off, as it was not passed down.
It was illegal to help Jedi during the Imperial Era; the
were given lifelong sentences for smuggling surviving Jedi Knights to safety.
Due to the Empire's interest in eliminating the Jedi, rewards were offered to those who surrendered them.
Regardless of whether he was alive or dead, a Jedi could yield a high reward to a
Surviving Jedi who tried to uphold the Order's ways became known as
with those they trained out in the galaxy described as
, tried to train a new generation of Knights in a hidden temple.
However, other survivors were mentally beaten and decided to simply survive in the new era, rather than use their abilities for the common good.
Inquisitors were fallen Jedi who hunted their former brethren as agents of the Sith and the Galactic Empire.
the Empire continued to hunt Jedi who had survived the protocol, with Sidious establishing the
away from Imperial eyes. She returned to Coruscant to prevent the Empire from discovering a
leading to her conflict with Vader and the Inquisitors. After her capture, she revealed the Emperor wanted her alive to access the list of children, whom he would turn into more dark side servants. Vader arranged for her death and destroyed the crystal, preventing such a future.
Over the years, Vader and the Inquisitorius hunted down what remained of the Jedi Order.
Additionally, a Force-sensitive criminal named
, pretended to be a Jedi to entrap those who survived the execution of Order 66.
a surviving Padawan who had turned away from the path of the Jedi in order to destroy the Sith.
were killed by Vader and his forces during the
. Barr had also recruited the Force-sensitive
but, even though she survived the invasion, she would eventually give up on the Jedi path, choosing to go into hiding instead.
Though hunted by Inquisitors, Cal Kestis sought to restore the fallen order by training a new generation of Jedi.
, after being discovered by the Empire and escaping the Inquisitors at
on a quest to restore the Jedi Order. Both searched for a
containing a list of Force-sensitive youth across the galaxy, which was hidden by Jedi Master
. Although they both obtained the holocron after a few clashes with the Inquisitors and one with Darth Vader, Kestis decided to destroy it to keep the young men on the list safe from the Empire.
Jedi Knight Tensu Run became a symbol of something the Empire could not tolerate: hope.
became a threat to the Empire, as after freeing prisoners from an
, he became a symbol of hope. Tensu Run's
became one of the Inquisitorius' highest priorities, with
. The Inquisitors were defeated more than once by the Jedi Knight, who, along with other survivors of Order 66, sought to restore the Jedi Order. Due to the Inquisitors' failures, Darth Vader led the four Inquisitors in a final confrontation with the Jedi, which resulted in Run's death by the hands of the Sith Lord, as well as the other Jedi, who were killed by the Inquisitors.
Cal Kestis became one of the most wanted Jedi by the Galactic Empire in 9 BBY.
Over the five years following the holocron's destruction, Kestis has become an extremely important target for the Empire, having attracted the attention of not only the Inquisitorius, but the
, Kestis encountered something from the Jedi's golden age. Kestis encountered the Jedi
, who has been preserved in bacta since the days of the High Republic. Kestis freed the old Jedi and asked for his help in his fight against the Empire. However, Gera fell out with the Jedi Order, who he believed had betrayed him because the Jedi had given up on
, a hard-to-reach world Dagan had become obsessed with, after an
. Gera fell to the dark side and bled the kyber crystal from his lightsaber, starting a duel with Kestis afterwards. Dagan escaped with the help of his old ally, the
, and intended to return to Tanalorr and create an army led by Force users trained by himself to fight the Empire. However, due to the clouded view of Gera by the dark side, Kestis opposed his plan. Along with
, Kestis killed Dagan and obtained the compass that would guide them to Tanalorr, a place that Kestis intended to transform into a refuge for those persecuted by the Empire.
Dagan Gera, a High Republic-era Jedi who had been in suspended animation for centuries, was found and freed by Jedi Knight Cal Kestis.
However, the compass was stolen by Akuna, who was an ISB's spy and a survivor of the Jedi Purge. Akuna intended to flee to Tanalorr with his daughter so that they could live free from the Empire forever, which, in his opinion, Kestis' intentions for Tanalorr jeopardized. Kestis followed Akuna to Tanalorr, and along with his ally, the
, slew him. Kestis and his friends took in Bode's daughter and held a Jedi funeral for Akuna, Cere Junda, and Eno Cordova, who were trying to restore knowledge from the Jedi archives and were killed due to Akuna stealing the compass. Having the compass, Kestis and his allies began to prepare Tanalorr for use by
, formerly known as the Padawan Caleb Dume,
, who chose to take his own life instead of facing the wrath of his masters for failing to defeat them. The Spectres then joined up with the larger
, which let Jarrus and Bridger work with Ahsoka Tano, who had become a
and the overall growing rebellion. These rebel cells entered into a
Vader confronted his former apprentice, the former Jedi Ahsoka Tano, in a Sith temple on Malachor.
had also survived the purge, having survived both Order 66 and a
He based himself on the remote planet of
though he was able to connect with the Lothal Jedi on two occasions through the
On the second occasion, Tano learned Vader was in fact her former mentor Skywalker, Yoda told Bridger to go to Malachor when he asked for advice on fighting the Sith, and Jarrus was knighted by a vision of the Grand Inquisitor.
, Tano finally encountered Vader. She again affirmed she was not a Jedi in order to seek revenge for her mentor's demise, as Skywalker had effectively died when he became Vader. At the end of their duel, Tano was presumed dead at Vader's hands,
but she had actually been saved by Bridger sometime later using the World Between Worlds.
Before he reached the point in his life where he rescued Tano, Bridger and the other rebels lived through much.
the Spectres and other rebel cells officially formed into the
on Tatooine by his old nemesis, Obi-Wan Kenobi. Before dying in his enemy's arms, Maul asked if the individual Kenobi was guarding on the desert world was the Chosen One. Believing Luke Skywalker was, Kenobi said as such, giving Maul hope that they would be avenged.
The Jedi Ezra Bridger went missing after the liberation of his home planet of Lothal.
, was captured after a failed Rebel Alliance
her, but he soon had to give his life to protect Bridger, Syndulla, and the Mandalorian
A short time later, Bridger entered the World Between Worlds and rescued Tano. While making sure Sidious would be unable to secure the power of the World Between Worlds, Tano and Bridger again parted ways, with Tano promising to find him when the time came.
his homeworld of Lothal. During the battle, Bridger spoke with
, who stated the Jedi had been reduced to those who were beaten, hidden away, or inexpertly trained Padawans. After again denying Sidious entrance into the World Between Worlds and having had a pod of
to have the creatures take him, Thrawn, and the Star Destroyer
Though Bridger's disappearance took another Jedi out of galactic affairs, the purrgil had taken out the
, and the Padawan's effort against Thrawn had successfully liberated Lothal.
The Jedi are extinct. Their fire has gone out of the universe. You, my friend, are all that's left of their religion.
When it seemed as though the Jedi had been destroyed, the Imperial
, a member of the Empire's leading triumvirate along with Darth Vader and Emperor Palpatine,
considered Vader the last remnant of the Jedi faith,
believed even saying the word "Jedi" in Imperial territory was unadvisable.
in the midst of the Galactic Civil War and after the
, Luke Skywalker finally became a part of the wider galaxy when
Both droids had known his father, Anakin Skywalker, before his fall, but C-3PO's memory of such events had been wiped.
powerful enough to destroy an entire planet. The plans had been entrusted to him by
Leia Organa. Both siblings remained unaware of each other thanks to their separate upbringings,
and Skywalker first saw her when R2 projected a hologram of her.
Luke Skywalker began his Jedi training under Obi-Wan Kenobi, the Jedi Master who trained his father, Anakin Skywalker.
Organa also gave the droid orders to find Obi-Wan Kenobi on Tatooine, whom Skywalker had met over his years on the desert world. Meeting with him, Kenobi presented Skywalker with
about Anakin by claiming Vader had killed him. After
killed Owen and Beru Lars, Skywalker joined Kenobi on his journey to return R2-D2 and C-3PO to Alderaan, hiring
Skywalker began his Jedi training during their journey, though Solo was outspoken in his belief that the Force did not exist. However, before they reached the planet, Tarkin ordered the Death Star
killed in the explosion. Upon arriving at the planet's remains, the crew of the
. Onboard, Skywalker convinced Solo to help him
, while Kenobi confronted Vader. To give Skywalker and the others a chance to escape, Kenobi sacrificed himself, dying at the hands of his former apprentice but becoming one with the Force. When the Empire tracked the
After Solo knocked Vader away, Skywalker listened to the voice of Kenobi, using the Force to help fire two
Skywalker and his friends became known as the "
A short time after the Battle of Yavin, they fought in the
, during which he confronted Vader for the death of Kenobi and alleged death of his father. During their brief encounter, Vader realized Skywalker wielded his old lightsaber.
Intending to learn the identity of his new enemy, whom he realized was the same pilot
but the bounty hunter had still learned his name. That information taught Vader that he had a son, inspiring him
to one day overthrow the Emperor with his son at his side.
Remember, the Force will be with you always.
―Obi-Wan Kenobi's spirit, to Luke Skywalker
Seeking passage to the Jedi Temple on Coruscant, Skywalker and R2-D2
who collected Jedi artifacts that he claimed to be the last remnants of the Order. When Grakkus forced Skywalker to open a Jedi holocron, he accidentally opened the Hutt's entire holocron collection, convincing Grakkus that Skywalker was the last of the Jedi.
Thus, the crime lord plotted for a colosseum match between the young Force-sensitive and a beast, eventually choosing
," who taught Skywalker that the Coruscant Jedi Temple had been converted into Palpatine's palace, and
Grakkus forced Skywalker, introduced to the crowd as "the last of the Jedi," into the colosseum,
but the match was cut short when the Gamemaster activated Kongo's shock collar. In reality, he was an undercover stormtrooper
named Kreel, as the Empire had taken notice of Grakkus's stockpile of Jedi artifacts.
Skywalker, bereft of a master after Kenobi's death, searched for knowledge in the ruins of other Jedi temples across the galaxy.
, knocking out their blasters and Kongo's collar. When two pilots tried to arrest Skywalker, R2-D2 threw him his lightsaber, doing the same for Solo, Organa, and Chewbacca when they arrived by launching out sabers from Grakkus's collection. When Kreel was distracted by Grakkus, the rebels were given a chance to escape, although the stormtrooper still reported everything he had learned about the young Jedi to Vader.
and reading about it in Kenobi's journal,
Skywalker traveled to the world, but Vader learned of his journey from his agent,
, Skywalker was unable to focus on learning from the Jedi Temple with Vader on the ground, and the Sith Lord killed many
While in the temple, Skywalker felt the presences of Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker, but he was then engaged by Aphra and Vader's two
With the help of his friends, Skywalker escaped these agents.
Later, as he again walked through the temple, he heard Kenobi's voice and was warned that he should not have come to Vrogas Vas. Meanwhile, Vader dueled his rival, Commander
Though the Sith Lord managed to kill Karbin, Skywalker and his friends escaped the Empire and Vader's personal agents. However, Skywalker was saddened that he would never have the chance to return to the temple, believing he had been close to a uncovering a secret.
to see if it could help in his training, as the world had been mentioned in Kenobi's journal,
claimed to Skywalker that, with the Jedi destroyed, their shrine was his only hope at learning the Force. Although he gazed into the crater, Skywalker did not want to lose himself to darkness, but Gi was corrupted by the abyss's connection to the dark side, forcing Skywalker to kill his companion in self-defense. Skywalker left the temple after the Central Isopter informed him the dark side could lead to madness if he did not have a proper guide, warning him to not fall because of his importance. Although he came to the conclusion that he might not end up a Jedi, but that he needed to be content with that, the mission on Jedha
would not be the last time Skywalker grabbled with that question.
No matter how far my father had fallen, I sensed that his turn to the dark side was not absolute. I knew Anakin Skywalker had followed his heart to a fault during his days as a Jedi. Our ultimate victory would rely on my belief that the same heart was still beating somewhere inside Darth Vader's armor.
Over five Dagobah days after his death, Obi-Wan Kenobi had appeared to Yoda as a
, asking the Jedi Master to take on Skywalker as an apprentice. While Yoda had wanted to train Organa, he accepted Kenobi's request to train him.
, three years after the destruction of the Death Star,
Skywalker journeyed to Dagobah with R2-D2 in the aftermath of the
, having been told by Kenobi's ghost to go here to train under the Jedi Master.
Upon seeing the young man, Yoda felt the hope that he would be the next Jedi,
although Skywalker's initial lack of patience nearly convinced the Jedi Master to reject him as an apprentice. Convinced to continue by Kenobi and Skywalker's protests, Yoda trained the young human
until the prodigy felt his friends being
The secret of Skywalker's parentage was made known to him by Vader during their duel in Cloud City.
Ignoring Kenobi and Yoda's protests but promising to one day return, Skywalker
by Vader. After losing his hand and lightsaber during the duel, Skywalker was horrified when the Sith Lord revealed he was his father, choosing to fall down an air shaft rather than agree to Vader’s offer to rule the galaxy with him. After being rescued by his friends—who had lost Solo after the captain had been
Skywalker was left in stunned silence over the truth of his heritage, not even noticing that Organa introduced his name to
After she informed him about recent events, while he only told her Kenobi had not answered his call for help in the Force, the
, forcing Skywalker and the others into an
. While manning one of the freighter's turrets, Skywalker, overwhelmed by the truth of his parentage, accidentally lashed out in the Force, helping take out
. As the rebels discussed what to do aboard the
, Skywalker stood alone with R2-D2, finding himself unable to connect with Yoda and questioning whether he should become a Jedi after all. Although scared as to what he could be if he was not to be a Jedi,
he received a replacement hand aboard the
and had a vision of a robed figure grabbing his fallen lightsaber on Cloud City.
Armed with a new lightsaber, Skywalker continued to train amid the Galactic Civil War.
Unable to find his lightsaber after returning to Cloud City but deciding he would be a Jedi without it,
and located the woman he had seen in his visions, Verla;
after spending years being hunted by the Empire, the former apprentice of Ferren Barr had abandoned the Jedi path to live in hiding. After learning Skywalker was not like his Sith father, Verla tried to dissuade him from following the Jedi path to avoid the pain it could cause, yet he remained steadfast in his desire to help the galaxy, promising to never visit her again if she gave the location of a
, who had been forced to remain in the mortal realm by Vader. Nevertheless, Skywalker defeated the specter, returning to the Fourth Division with R2-D2 and his new blade.
Nevertheless, after using the blade against the Empire
, building a new weapon with a green blade.
Vader, meanwhile, had gone on a quest to find who exactly had hidden his son from him,
yet his mission ultimately taught him what had happened to his wife, Padmé Amidala, and that, even in her final moments, she held faith that the light side still existed in him. Consumed with sadness instead of hatred, Vader returned to Coruscant,
where he was tortured by Sidious for his lack of devotion to him. Leaving Vader on Mustafar as punishment,
the Sith apprentice came to regain his strength, capturing Sidious's assassin,
, where he had learned his master kept secrets.
Once on the Sith world, Vader proclaimed that he was no longer an apprentice, yet he was defeated by his master,
leaving him to feel that his son needed to die for the future of the Sith to unfold.
Amid the Battle of Endor, Skywalker and Vader dueled before the Emperor.
Solo from carbonite and defeating crime lord
on Tatooine, Skywalker returned to Dagobah, where Yoda became one with the Force, and the young Jedi learned Organa was his sister. Afterward, Skywalker promised to take part in the Rebel effort to destroy a
could begin, however, he surrendered himself to Vader's custody, hoping he could turn his father back to the light side. Instead, the Sith Lord felt forced to obey his master, taking Skywalker before Sidious to turn him to the dark side. As the battle between the Empire and Rebels raged on the ground and in space, father and son dueled once more until Skywalker was consumed with rage, striking against Vader when he taunted that his daughter could be turned to the dark side if his son refused. Desiring to replace Vader with his more powerful son, the Emperor subsequently betrayed Vader by ordering the Jedi Knight to take Vader's' place as Sidious's apprentice.
Instead of killing his father, however, Skywalker affirmed he was a Jedi, earning the anger of Sidious who tortured him with
. Before Sidious could kill him, however, Vader returned to the light side to save his son, throwing his Sith Master down a reactor shaft to kill him. The defeat and destruction of the Sith at the hands of the now redeemed Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker, allowed him to fulfill his role as the Chosen One. Dying in his son's arms, the man who was once again Anakin Skywalker became one with the Force, appearing as a Force-spirit to Luke alongside Yoda and Kenobi.
If you choose the armor, you'll return to your friend, the Mandalorian. However, you will be giving in to attachment to those that you love and forsaking the way of the Jedi. But if you choose the lightsaber, you will be the first student in my academy, and I will train you to be a great Jedi.
The Mandalorian Din Djarin became the guardian of Grogu, a youngling of Yoda's species who survived the Great Jedi Purge.
Ahsoka Tano was still alive, helping Sabine Wren on her
Following the fall of the Galactic Empire during the
Before Order 66, Grogu had been a youngling in the Jedi Order before being hidden from the Empire.
, escaping the remnant and its hired bounty hunters.
" tasked him with returning Grogu to the Jedi after telling him about the Order.
to get the location of Grand Admiral Thrawn from
. Although she refused to train Grogu, Tano pointed Djarin to the Jedi planet
, where Grogu could be able to reach out to one of the few Jedi left in the galaxy.
Even though Grogu managed to connect with Luke Skywalker,
the infant was captured by Gideon's remnant.
, Djarin and his team found themselves under siege from
, only for Skywalker and R2-D2 to arrive in Red Five. Cutting down every
, Skywalker agreed to train Grogu, departing with the infant and R2.
Grogu trained with Skywalker for some time at his under-construction
, where Tano joined him in watching over the Child's growing abilities.
Ultimately, however, Grogu chose to return to Djarin rather than continue down the life of a Jedi.
He was training a new generation of Jedi. One boy, an apprentice turned against him, destroyed it all. Luke felt responsible. He just walked away from everything.
Skywalker passed on the ways of the Force to a new generation of Jedi, which included his nephew Ben Solo.
Skywalker began to work on rebuilding the Jedi Order after the Galactic Civil War during the
, eventually gathering a group of Jedi students, among them his nephew,
However, Luke sensed a growing darkness in Ben and eventually went to confront his nephew in the night. When Luke peered into his nephew's mind while he slept, he saw the machinations of the mysterious dark side wielder
and Ben's darkness, which would lead to death, destruction, and despair in the galaxy, and, in a moment of pure instinct, ignited his lightsaber. Luke, whose
had a history with the dark side, was quickly overcome by shame and regret, but before he could put away his blade, his nephew woke up, and, in the confusion of the moment, ignited his own lightsaber to clash with his uncle and brought down his hut on him.
When Ben lashed out against his uncle, he destroyed Skywalker's
Ben had emerged from the wreckage of his hut enraged about his uncle's actions, but he was horrified when a lightning storm appeared and
. Shortly after that, Hennix, Tai, and Voe returned on their starship
. Sensing only Ben's presence, they confronted Ben, who told them Skywalker had tried to kill him. In response to Ben's evasive and confrontational behavior, they fought and pursued him. In despair and confusion, Ben turned to his friend Snoke.
When Skywalker emerged from the rubble, he saw that Ben had burned the temple, but mistakenly believed that Ben had slaughtered most of his students while taking the rest with him.
Ben fled the other Jedi students to become Snoke's student and contacted
which resulted in Hennix's death. Reaching the Knights of Ren on
who allowed him to accompany the group to obtain a Force artifact called the
. There, Ben succumbed to the dark side when Ren murdered Tai, making him kill Ren and then Voe, thus killing the last remaining Padawan. Now consumed by the dark side of the Force, Ben Solo became Kylo Ren and assumed leadership of the Knights of Ren.
The rebellion is reborn today, the war is just beginning, and I will not be the last Jedi.
Though reluctant to train another apprentice after his nephew's turn to the dark side, Skywalker agreed to teach the Jedi arts to the scavenger Rey.
approached Luke at the first Jedi Temple on Ahch-To, seeking to be trained as a Jedi, having been sent by General Leia Organa, leader of the Resistance, Luke's sister, and Kylo Ren's mother. Though Luke rejected her at first, he eventually agreed to train her. A Force bond that connected Kylo Ren and Rey brought her to the
, where Kylo turned her over to his master,
Snoke. However, Kylo killed his master, and fought with Rey against his
When Kylo usurped his master's power, Rey abandoned him and joined with the fleeing Resistance on
had erupted. As Rey helped the few Resistance survivors escape aboard the
, inspired by Rey to new faith in the Jedi and the goodness of their cause, Luke projected an image of himself on Crait to distract Kylo Ren and the First Order. He warned Kylo that he would not be the last Jedi, naming Rey his successor, before becoming one with the Force. Luke's tale went on to spread across the galaxy as a symbol of hope in a dark time as the First Order rose to power.
When Darth Sidious was revealed to be resurrected in the
following the Battle at Crait, Rey, who had continued her
under Leia Organa, and her companions in the Resistance undertook a
to find a way to safely navigate through space to Exegol, where Sidious's
Rey hears the voices of late Jedi while facing Darth Sidious during the Battle of Exegol.
After learning from Kylo Ren that Darth Sidious was her grandfather and that she was a
, Rey briefly considered exiling herself at the first Jedi Temple as her old master had, but the spirit of Skywalker appeared before Rey to encourage her to confront her fear, teaching his student that it was the destiny of all Jedi and that he had been wrong about his self-imposed exile. Rey and a redeemed Kylo Ren, who renounced the dark side and reclaimed his birth identity Ben Solo, confronted Sidious during a
to rejuvenate himself, but Rey was restrengthened when she reached out to and heard the voices of the past Jedi, allowing her to stand reflect his lightning to destroy Sidious and the Sith for good. Rey was killed as a result of the ensuring explosion, but she was revived when Solo gave his life for hers. Although the
ended, their actions allowed the Jedi to prevail and prevent the return of the Sith. Rey chose to adopt the surname "Skywalker" when she visited the
on Tatooine and saw the spirits of Luke and Leia in the distance.
In the aftermath of the First Order/Resistance War, Rey eventually gained the status of Jedi Master. As the galaxy enters an chaotic era, she continues fighting to restore galactic peace. As Master, Rey started to work on rebuilding the Jedi.
After successfully passing a rigorous series of tests that challenged mind, body, and spirit, a Padawan became a bona fide Jedi Knight, a shining symbol of peace and justice across the galaxy.
Members of the Jedi Order held various positions within the Order at times as they studied the Force and gained experience.
A Padawan was a Jedi apprentice who trained to become a full-fledged Jedi Knight.
: A young child who was Force-sensitive would be identified at birth and taken to the
They were to be put into classes of other Jedi younglings
and trained together before being taken as an apprentice by a
Younglings were not to be trained once they had reached a certain age, with the sole exception to this rule being Anakin Skywalker.
: A youngling who had been chosen by a Jedi Knight or Jedi Master to train under their tutelage personally into becoming a fully fledged Jedi Knight. Their readiness was decided by the
: Once a Padawan has successfully passed the
, they were be granted the rank of Jedi Knight and went out on missions of their own, no longer under the tutelage of a master and may take on a Padawan themselves.
: A Jedi Knight was granted the rank of Jedi Master when they had proven themselves. A select few masters were offered a seat on the Jedi High Council when they had shown great skill, wisdom and devotion to the Force.
: The leader of the Jedi High Council, the position of Grand Master was given to the oldest and considered to be the wisest member of the Jedi Order.
I've trained all my life to understand the call of the Force. Through that understanding, I can serve the galaxy, whether as a lone Wayseeker or by taking on an apprentice.
Some members of the Jedi Order had specific titles and roles within the Order. These included:
Master of the Order was the title of the Jedi who assumed leadership over the Jedi Council.
: This position was assumed by the leader of the Jedi High Council.
They had to be voted unanimously into the position by the council's members.
during the Clone Wars, these anonymous Jedi guarded the Jedi Temple with
: These Jedi devoted themselves to the study of diplomacy or science and avoided combat and warfare duties.
: These Jedi searched the galaxy for Force-sensitive children in order to recruit them into the Jedi Order.
: Jedi who focused on small-scale, community matters.
: Jedi of the High Republic Era who operated independently from the Jedi High Council and followed only the will of the Force.
The general is the one who gives the orders around here.
At the onset of the Clone Wars, the Jedi, the guardians of peace and justice in the Galactic Republic, were chosen by the Galactic Senate, whom the Jedi owed their allegiance to,
to lead the new Grand Army of the Republic. They were thus given either of the respective ranks in the
: Granted to Padawans, who served as second-in-commands to Jedi Generals in the Grand Army of the Republic.
: Granted to Jedi Knights and Jedi Masters, who served as the highest ranking
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
Star Wars Insider: The High Republic: Tales of Enlightenment
The High Republic: Quest for the Hidden City
The High Republic Adventures: Quest of the Jedi
Tales of Enlightenment: A Different Perspective
Star Wars Insider: The High Republic: Tales of Enlightenment
Tales of Enlightenment: The Unusual Suspect
Star Wars Insider: The High Republic: Tales of Enlightenment
Tales of Enlightenment: No Such Thing as a Bad Customer
Star Wars Insider: The High Republic: Tales of Enlightenment
Star Wars Insider: The High Republic: Tales of Enlightenment
Star Wars Insider: The High Republic: Tales of Enlightenment
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
The High Republic Adventures Annual 2021
The High Republic Adventures Annual 2021
Young Jedi Adventures: My First Comic Reader Level 1
Young Jedi Adventures: My First Comic Reader Level 1
Young Jedi Adventures: My First Comic Reader Level 1
Young Jedi Adventures: My First Comic Reader Level 1
Young Jedi Adventures: My First Comic Reader Level 1
Young Jedi Adventures: My First Comic Reader Level 1
The High Republic: The Great Jedi Rescue
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures—The Training Sessions
The High Republic Adventures — The Monster of Temple Peak
The High Republic Adventures — The Monster of Temple Peak
The High Republic Adventures — The Monster of Temple Peak
The High Republic Adventures — The Monster of Temple Peak
The High Republic: Race to Crashpoint Tower
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
The High Republic Adventures Annual 2021
The High Republic Adventures: Galactic Bake-Off Spectacular
Tales of Villainy: A Very Nihil Interlude
The High Republic Adventures Annual 2021
The High Republic: The Battle for Starlight
The High Republic – Shadows of Starlight
The High Republic – Shadows of Starlight
The High Republic – Shadows of Starlight
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
The High Republic – Shadows of Starlight
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
The High Republic: The Edge of Balance: Precedent
The High Republic Adventures – The Nameless Terror
The High Republic Adventures – The Nameless Terror
The High Republic Adventures – The Nameless Terror
The High Republic Adventures – The Nameless Terror
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
The High Republic Adventures: Crash Landing
Tales from the Occlusion Zone: No Big Deal
Tales from the Occlusion Zone: Friend or Foe?
The High Republic Adventures: Crash and Burn
Tales from the Occlusion Zone: Survivors
Tales from the Occlusion Zone: Family Ties
The High Republic: Temptation of the Force
The High Republic: Tears of the Nameless
The High Republic Adventures – Echoes of Fear
The High Republic Adventures – Echoes of Fear
The High Republic Adventures – Echoes of Fear
The High Republic Adventures – Echoes of Fear
The High Republic Adventures – Saber for Hire
The High Republic Adventures – Saber for Hire
The High Republic Adventures – Saber for Hire
The High Republic Adventures – Saber for Hire
The High Republic: The Edge of Balance: Premonition
Tales from the Occlusion Zone: The Fate of Eriadu
Three Younglings & the Snackfrog of Doom
The High Republic Adventures Phase III Annual
The High Republic Adventures Phase III Annual
The Adventures of Churo the Hutt and the Heart of Eroudac
The High Republic Adventures Phase III Annual
The High Republic Adventures Phase III Annual
The High Republic Adventures Phase III Annual
The High Republic Adventures – Dispatches from the Occlusion Zone
The High Republic Adventures – Dispatches from the Occlusion Zone
The High Republic Adventures – Dispatches from the Occlusion Zone
The High Republic Adventures – Dispatches from the Occlusion Zone
The High Republic Adventures Phase III - The Wedding Spectacular
The High Republic Adventures Phase III - The Battle of Eriadu
Tales from the Occlusion Zone: The Will to Fight
Star Wars: The Prequel Trilogy – A Graphic Novel
Choose Your Destiny: An Obi-Wan & Anakin Adventure
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
Galactic Tales: From The Shadows Come The Kran
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
Choose Your Destiny: A Clone Trooper Mission
Hyperspace Stories: The Bad Batch—Ghost Agents
Hyperspace Stories: The Bad Batch—Ghost Agents
Hyperspace Stories: The Bad Batch—Ghost Agents
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
Forces of Destiny: Daring Adventures: Volume 1
Forces of Destiny: Daring Adventures: Volume 2
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
Solo: A Star Wars Story: Expanded Edition
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
The Secret Jedi: The Adventures of Kanan Jarrus: Rebel Leader
Servants of the Empire: Rebel in the Ranks
Servants of the Empire: The Secret Academy
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
A New Hope: The Princess, the Scoundrel, and the Farm Boy
The Adventures of Luke Skywalker, Jedi Knight
Star Wars: The Original Trilogy – A Graphic Novel
(Appears in final-page illustration only)
Chewie vs. Holochess - Let the Wookiee Win
Han Solo – Taking Flight for his Friends
Luke vs. the Death Star - X-wing Assault
The Princess and the Bog, A Twin Tale, Part 1
The Princess and the Bog, A Twin Tale, Part 2
Galactic Adventures Storybook Collection
The Weapon of a Jedi: A Luke Skywalker Adventure
Star Wars Adventures: The Weapon of a Jedi
Choose Your Destiny: A Luke & Leia Adventure
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
The Empire Strikes Back: So You Want to Be a Jedi?
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Luke vs. Imperial Walkers - Commander on Hoth
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Star Wars Galactic Stories: 7 Stories from a Galaxy Far, Far Away....
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Luke Skywalker vs. Darth Vader – Join Me
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Moving Target: A Princess Leia Adventure
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Return of the Jedi: Beware the Power of the Dark Side!
Star Wars Galactic Stories: 7 Stories from a Galaxy Far, Far Away....
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Star Wars Galactic Stories: 7 Stories from a Galaxy Far, Far Away....
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Luke vs. Emperor Palpatine - Rise to Evil
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Star Wars Adventures: Shadow of Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Victory's Price: An Alphabet Squadron Novel
Chapter 6: From the Desert Comes a Stranger
Part Eight: The Jedi, the Witch, and the Warlord
Very Interesting, As an Astrogation Problem
Age of Resistance - Supreme Leader Snoke
Tales from a Galaxy Far, Far Away: Aliens: Volume I
The Crimson Corsair and the Lost Treasure of Count Dooku
Tales from a Galaxy Far, Far Away: Aliens: Volume I
Galactic Adventures Storybook Collection
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: A Junior Novel
Join the Resistance: Attack on Starkiller Base
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: A Junior Novel
The Last Jedi: Rose and Finn's Secret Mission
Star Wars: Tales from the Galaxy's Edge – Last Call
Tales from Wild Space: The Flat Mountain of Yavin
Tales from Wild Space: Mattis Makes a Stand
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
William Shakespeare's Star Wars: Verily, A New Hope
William Shakespeare's The Empire Striketh Back: Star Wars Part the Fifth
William Shakespeare's The Jedi Doth Return: Star Wars Part the Sixth
William Shakespeare's The Phantom of Menace: Star Wars Part the First
Star Wars Epic Yarns: The Empire Strikes Back
Star Wars Epic Yarns: Return of the Jedi
William Shakespeare's The Clone Army Attacketh: Star Wars Part the Second
William Shakespeare's Tragedy of the Sith's Revenge: Star Wars Part the Third
LEGO Star Wars: Droid Tales Episodes I-III
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
William Shakespeare's The Force Doth Awaken: Star Wars Part the Seventh
William Shakespeare's Jedi the Last: Star Wars Part the Eighth
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
list is incomplete. You can help Wookieepedia by
"Rising Malevolence" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Shadow of Malevolence" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Destroy Malevolence" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Rookies" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Downfall of a Droid" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Duel of the Droids" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Bombad Jedi" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Cloak of Darkness" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Lair of Grievous" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Dooku Captured" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"The Gungan General" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Jedi Crash" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Defenders of Peace" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Trespass" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"The Hidden Enemy" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Blue Shadow Virus" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Mystery of a Thousand Moons" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Storm Over Ryloth" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Liberty on Ryloth" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Hostage Crisis" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Holocron Heist" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Cargo of Doom" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Children of the Force" Episode Guide - The Clone Wars
"Senate Spy" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Landing at Point Rain" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Weapons Factory" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
Meet the Inquisitor, the Empire's Jedi Hunter | Star Wars Rebels
Star Wars Rebels Extended Trailer (Official)
Kanan vs. The Inquisitor - SDCC 2014 Exclusive Clip | Star Wars Rebels
Helmets: Darth Vader, Master of the Dark Side
Premieres Friday, October 3 on Disney Channel
Helmets: Boba Fett — Notorious Bounty Hunter
Highlights of the Saga: The Capture of Han Solo
Cowboy Jedi: Freddie Prinze Jr. is Kanan Jarrus
Mandalorian Graffiti: Tiya Sircar is Sabine Wren
Highlights of the Saga: Escape to Tatooine
Highlights of the Saga: Kidnap of the Chancellor
Star Wars Rebels: Beware the Inquisitor!
Databank A-Z: Hydroid Medusas–Imperial Academies
Highlights of the Saga: Intrigue on Utapau
Highlights of the Saga: Birth of an Empire
Highlights of the Saga: The Secret of Kamino
Highlights of the Saga: Palpatine Unmasked
Weapons & Uniforms: The Grand Army of the Republic
Passel Argente - Corporate Alliance Magistrate
Supreme Chancellor Palpatine - Galactic Republic
Databank A-Z: E-11 Blaster–Cornelius Evazan
Highlights of the Saga: The Fall of the Jedi
Weapons & Uniforms: Citizens of Coruscant
Highlights of the Saga: Battle on Geonosis
Highlights of the Saga: The Boonta Eve Classic
Highlights of the Saga: The Death of Jabba the Hutt
Weapons & Uniforms: Jabba's Skiff Guards
Databank A-Z: Saw Gerrera–Commander Gree
Highlights of the Saga: The Capture of the
Weapons & Uniforms: Leaders of the Rebel Alliance
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle of Naboo
Weapons & Uniforms: The Gungan Grand Army
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle of Geonosis
Highlights of the Saga: Duel to the Death
Weapons & Uniforms: Terror of the IG-100s
Highlights of the Saga: Anakin's Tragedy
Databank A-Z: Imperial Future Council–Inquisitorius
Databank A-Z: InterGalactic Banking Clan–Jakku
Highlights of the Saga: Battle of Kashyyyk
Databank A-Z: Queen Jamillia–Jedi Temples
Highlights of the Saga: Crash Landing on Coruscant
Highlights of the Saga: The Betrayal of Captain Argyus
Databank A-Z: Kyber Crystals–Laser Cannons
Highlights of the Saga: Escape from Utapau
Highlights of the Saga: The Unlikely Heroes
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: New Adventures
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
Databank A-Z: Davish Krail–Kuat Drive Yards
Weapons & Uniforms: Citizens of Alderaan
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle of Teth
Highlights of the Saga: Ambush on Rugosa
Highlights of the Saga: Raid on the Jedi Temple
Highlights of the Saga: Assault on Jakku
Databank A-Z: Admiral Wiskovis–The Works
Highlights of the Saga: The Maridun Incident
Highlights of the Saga: Striking at the New Republic
Much to Learn You Still Have: 7 Things You Might Not Know About Twi'leks
Much to Learn You Still Have: 9 Things You Might Not Know About Rodians
Highlights of the Saga: Joining Phoenix Squadron
Databank A-Z: Sabe–The Separatist Council
Weapons & Uniforms: First Order Fleet Personnel
Much to Learn You Still Have: 10 Things You Might Not Know About Mon Calamari
Highlights of the Saga: Duel on Stygeon Prime
Much to Learn You Still Have: 8 Things You Might Not Know About Wookiees
Highlights of the Saga: The Search for Lor San Tekka
Highlights of the Saga: The Hunt for Luke Skywalker
Highlights of the Saga: Help from an Old Friend
Star Wars: Rogue One: The Ultimate Visual Guide
Weapons & Uniforms: Veterans of the Clone Wars
Highlights of the Saga: The Second Battle of Geonosis
Weapons & Uniforms: The 41st Elite Corps
Building the Galaxy: Designing R2-D2, Part 1
Droid Directory: R2-series Astromech Droids, Part 1
Droid Directory: 3PO-series Protocol Droids, Part 1
Droid Directory: R2-series Astromech Droids, Part 2
Building the Galaxy: Filming R2-D2, Part 1
Droid Directory: 3PO-series Protocol Droids, Part 2
Much to Learn You Still Have: 8 Things You Might Not Know About Geonosians
Droid Directory: LOM-series Protocol Droids
Building the Galaxy: The Weapon of a Jedi
Droid Directory: Imperial Mark IV Sentry Droid
Highlights of the Saga: Flight from Naboo
Much to Learn You Still Have: 8 Things You Might Not Know About Kaminoans
Highlights of the Saga: The Rebirth of Caleb Dume
Much to Learn You Still Have: 8 Things You Might Not Know About Hutts
Highlights of the Saga: A Perilous Mission
Highlights of the Saga: Target: The Holy City
Weapons & Uniforms: Rebel Leaders at Yavin 4
Highlights of the Saga: Luke's Journey in the Force
Databank A-Z: Tractor Beams–Tri-Fighters
Much to Learn You Still Have: 7 Things You Might Not Know About Togrutas
Star Wars Super Graphic: A Visual Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
Star Wars Forces of Destiny: Meet the Heroes
Databank A-Z: VCX-100 Light Freighter–Veers
Weapons & Uniforms: Inhabitants of Jedha
Highlights of the Saga: Liberating Lothal
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, Updated and Expanded
Databank A-Z: Vibroblades–Cikatro Vizago
Forces of Destiny: Tales of Hope & Courage
Star Wars: A-wing Deluxe Book and 3D Wood Model
Star Wars: The Last Jedi Activity Book with Stickers
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Heroes of the Galaxy
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Incredible Cross-Sections
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Ultimate Sticker Collection
Behind the Cameras: Evolution of Stormtroopers
Limited Edition Luke Skywalker Commander Expansions
Limited Edition Darth Vader Commander Expansion
Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles
Star Wars Lightsabers: A Guide to Weapons of the Force
The Last Jedi: Rose Tico: Resistance Fighter
Solo: A Star Wars Story The Official Guide
Much to Learn You Still Have: 8 Things You Might Not Know About Weequays
Starfighter Aces: Luke Skywalker — Savior of the Rebel Alliance
Solo: A Star Wars Story: Tales from Vandor
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Starfighter Aces: Jango Fett — Legendary Bounty Hunter
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
Squad Seven Veteran — ARC-170 Starfighter
Hotshots and Aces II Reinforcements Pack
Blue Squadron Protector — V-19 Torrent Starfighter
Gold Squadron Trooper — V-19 Torrent Starfighter
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia, New Edition
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
Star Wars: How Not to Get Eaten by Ewoks and Other Galactic Survival Skills
75258 Anakin's Podracer - 20th Anniversary Edition
Rebel Starfighters Owners' Workshop Manual
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Galactic Guide
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Clone Wars - Season 7 Episode Series
Star Wars: The Clone Wars - Season 7 Episode Series
Star Wars: The Clone Wars - Season 7 Episode Series
Star Wars: The Clone Wars - Season 7 Episode Series
Star Wars: The Clone Wars - Season 7 Episode Series
"On the Wings of Keeradaks" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Unfinished Business" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Gone with a Trace" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Deal No Deal" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Dangerous Debt" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Together Again" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Old Friends Not Forgotten" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"The Phantom Apprentice" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Shattered" Episode Guide - The Clone Wars
"Victory and Death" Episode Guide - The Clone Wars
Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge: Traveler's Guide to Batuu
"Redemption" Episode Guide | The Mandalorian
Star Wars Complete Vehicles, New Edition
Republic, Rebel, and Resistance Starfighters
The Battle of Hoth and the Second Death Star
The Final Order and the Battle of Exegol
Jedi Knight Vernestra Rwoh: Characters of Star Wars the High Republic
Avar Kriss | Characters of Star Wars: The High Republic
The Nihil: Characters of Star Wars the High Republic
A Deep Dive Into Star Wars: The High Republic, Bringing A Younger Yoda to Life (in VR), and More!
Jedi Padawan Bell Zettifar | Characters of Star Wars the High Republic
Chancellor Lina Soh | Characters of Star Wars: The High Republic
"Aftermath" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
"Cut and Run" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
New High Republic Comic Revealed, Lightsabers from the Prime of the Jedi, and More!
"Decommissioned" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
"Battle Scars" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy
Star Wars: The High Republic Anniversary Special
: 5 Highlights from "Chapter 2: The Tribes of Tatooine"
Ahsoka Tano and Other Users of the Force
: 5 Highlights from "Chapter 5: Return of the Mandalorian"
Stranger | The Book of Boba Fett | Disney+
Cargo Hold: "Chapter 6: From the Desert Comes a Stranger"
: 5 Highlights from "Chapter 6: From the Desert Comes a Stranger"
Obi-Wan Kenobi | Teaser Trailer | Disney+
Assassin, Security, and Other Droids of War
Obi-Wan Kenobi | Official Trailer | Disney+
Disney Gallery: The Book of Boba Fett | Disney+
Day Merchandise Is Actually Quite Civilized
at 20 | Concept Artist Roel Robles on the Design Origins of Count Dooku's Unique Lightsaber Hilt
at 20 | Hayden Christensen Looks Back at His First Steps as Anakin Skywalker
at 20 | Rob Coleman on Bringing Yoda, Dexter Jettster, and More to Digital Life
at 20 | Costume Designer Trisha Biggar Reflects on Her Most Challenging Film
A Series of Firsts | Obi-Wan Kenobi | Disney+
With the New Dark Horse Comic – Exclusive
Obi-101: Everything You Need to Know About Obi-Wan Kenobi
10 of Obi-Wan Kenobi's Greatest Moments (So Far)
Obi-Wan Wednesdays: Reva Figure Revealed and More!
Ewan McGregor and Hayden Christensen Take The Stage At SWCA 2022 | Star Wars Celebration Live!
Jon Favreau and Dave Filoni Take The Stage At SWCA 2022 | Star Wars Celebration Live!
Star Wars Jedi: Survivor – Official Teaser
Star Wars: The High Republic For Light and Life Panel | Star Wars Celebration Anaheim 2022
SWCA 2022: 20 Highlights from Lucasfilm's Studio Showcase
SWCA 2022: 6 Things We Learned From the Lucasfilm Publishing Fiction Panel
SWCA 2022: Respawn's Stig Asmussen Talks
and Reflects on Its Predecessor – Exclusive
Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords
SWCA 2022: 10 Things We Learned From the
SWCA 2022: Gather Your Younglings for the
Rosario Dawson and Natasha Liu Bordizzo takes the stage at SWCA 2022 | Star Wars Celebration Live!
Star Wars: Attack of the Clones 20th Anniversary Celebration | Star Wars Celebration Anaheim 2022
Moses Ingram & Rupert Friend Take the Stage at SWCA 2022 | Star Wars Celebration LIVE!
SWCA 2022: 5 Product Reveals We Love from the
SWCA 2022: 5 Highlights from ILMxLAB's Making of
Star Wars: The Bad Batch | Season 2 Teaser Trailer | Disney+
Go Beyond The Spires in Virtual Reality: Making of ILMxLab's Tales From The Galaxy's Edge SWCA 2022
SWCA 2022: Meet Marietta Ivanova, the Cosplay Competition Winner Who Brought a Geonosian to Life
SWCA 2022: 8 Things We Learned from the Marvel
The Story Behind Lucasfilm and Volkswagen's Fantastic
Obi-Wan and Qui-Gon Step Inside Darkness in Marvel's
The Story of the Ronin Continues and More from Marvel's September 2022
The Cast of Obi-Wan Kenobi Talk Darth Vader, Obi-Wan's Daring Mission, and More!
The Obi-Wan Cast Chat About Obi-Wan, Reva's Intentions Are Revealed, and More!
Inside the Lucasfilm Archive: An Elegant Weapon and Other Jedi Artifacts from the
Explore Jedha of the High Republic Era and More from Marvel's October 2022
Ben Kenobi Remembers the Clone Wars in Marvel's
Costumes Revealed at the Lucasfilm Pavilion
San Diego Comic Con Plans, Obi-Wan Kenobi Props, and More!
Tales and More Reveals from the Lucasfilm Publishing Panel
Star Wars: The Secrets of the Bounty Hunters
Star Wars: The High Republic: Chronicles of the Jedi
High Republic Phase II Deep Dive, Star Wars Celebration, and More!
(Card: General Obi-Wan Kenobi (Order Card))
Master & Apprentice: A Special Look at Ahsoka
Star Wars: The High Republic Character Encyclopedia
Tales of the Empire | Official Trailer | Disney+
Star Wars Outlaws Official Gameplay: All the Star Wars Lore, Details & Easter Eggs | Ubisoft Forward
Star Wars Bestiary, Vol. 1: Creatures of the Galaxy
Star Wars: The High Republic: The Lightsaber Collection
Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy
Wookiee Basketball, Kid Han Solo, and a Kenobi Dummy: 20 Fun Facts about
Star Wars: The Acolyte: The Visual Guide
The Art of Star Wars: The High Republic: Volume II
Companion: Phase III: Trials of the Jedi
AT-AT Walker (All Terrain Armored Transport)
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: The Visual Dictionary
, therefore the Jedi must have been formed sometime prior to 25,025
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Chapter 6: From the Desert Comes a Stranger
"The Soft War" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
Star Wars Rebels Showrunner Explains Major Knight of the Old Republic Reference
The High Republic – Shadows of Starlight
The Acolyte | Official Trailer | Disney+
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
dates the destruction of Ossus to approximately 4000
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
. Therefore, the Separatist Crisis must have begun in
Star Wars Battlefront II: Battle of Geonosis Official Trailer
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
, the occupation of Mon Cala took place in
Star Wars: Galactic Atlas: Updated Edition
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle for Jedha
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know