This article has multiple issues and is in need of major additions and/or work.
It is requested that this article, or a section of this article, be expanded. ({{
Parts of this article have been identified as no longer being up to date. ({{
}}) The article needs to be updated with
Very Interesting, As an Astrogation Problem
Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy
Star Wars Bestiary, Vol. 1: Creatures of the Galaxy
Please help Wookieepedia by editing this article. Once you have fixed an issue, you may remove it from the list of issues. See this article's
With all due respect, General, if someone comes to our home, they better be carrying a big blaster.
—a race of tall, elegant beings with long necks who were regarded as a mysterious
that tended to keep to themselves. They were also known for their
Largely isolated from the wider galaxy, Kamino's existence was erased from the
to the planet, where he discovered the cloning program. With the outbreak of the
and a vital asset for the Republic, resulting in at least two attempts to invade the watery world. During the early days of the
, with the cloning program halted, Kamino's civilization was almost completely wiped out via orbital bombardment of all cities and structures, including the capital of
, leaving only a small diaspora of Kaminoans in Imperial custody or scattered amongst the stars as all that remained.
Decommissioning of the cloning facilities
Galactic Society of Creature Enthusiasts
Kamino. I'm not familiar with it. Is it in the Republic?
No, no. It's beyond the Outer Rim. I'd say about, uh, 12 parsecs… outside the Rishi Maze.
Kamino, homeworld of the Kaminoan cloners, was largely isolated from the greater galaxy.
lived on stilt-cities scattered across Kamino's
surface. The majority of these cities were devoted to
projects, as the highly intelligent Kaminoans specialized in cloning for clients needing workers or private security forces, along with other one-off requests. Due to the remoteness of the planet and its extensive rainy season, only occasional representatives of clone purchasing authorities were undeterred from visiting the world. During some parts of the year was covered with heavy electrical storms, where Kaminoans rode on
underwater and resurfaced once they were near their destination.
These, uh, Kaminoans keep to themselves. They're cloners. Damn good ones too.
At some point the planet was not covered in water, and the
built a large land-based civilization. However, the water level rose, forcing the Kaminoans to build their structures on stilts.
Kamino was the homeworld of the Kaminoan cloners.
The Kaminoans were generally isolationists, staying out of contact with the nearby
. This behavior could be traced back to the
that changed their homeworld, as they decided it was less risky to adapt their
commissioned the Kaminoans to create a clone army for the Galactic Republic,
that saw the galaxy descending into a galaxy-spanning
secretly took over the project, after arranging Sifo-Dyas'
and deleted all information of Kamino from them to cover up the Sith's tracks.
hunter tasked for the assassination attempt,
. Fett killed Wesell before she could reveal any information. Kenobi went on to investigate the assassination attempt, searching for clues from the
used to kill Wesell. After receiving no answers from the Jedi Archives, Kenobi sought counsel with
friend that the dart originated from Kamino, a planet located twelve
in orbit of the main galaxy. Jettster explained that Kamino was home to highly competent cloners who mostly kept to themselves. Kamino had been removed from the records of the Jedi Archives, so Kenobi and Master
had to locate the planet by other means. After finding a way to reach Kamino, Kenobi
supposedly commissioned by the Jedi Order.
There's only one target of interest in this sector: Kamino. It's the closest thing we clones have to a home. Today we fight for more than the Republic. Today we fight for all our brothers back home.
Kamino was protected by the Republic Military throughout the Clone Wars, due to its production of clone troopers.
, Kamino was one of the main operational areas of the Galactic Republic. It served as the main training grounds for
as well as the location for the clone army's creation.
As such, it was a major military asset for the Republic and a prime target for a
attack and thus warranted the protection of a massive Republic naval
; the size of this blockade discouraged all but the most risky of full-frontal assaults by the Separatists to stand a chance of taking Kamino.
At some point, a galactic explorer—who may have been the
—elected to make the long journey needed to visit Kamino, wanting to visit Tipoca City and meet the cloners who had come to play a vital role in
, the explorer wrote that they were honored to visit the city.
From the beginnings of the war, the Separatists plotted their assault on the clone homeworld. In
, a Republic outpost that could warn Kamino of an impending attack. The base was taken over by the droids, but as Grievous's fleet arrived in the system before attacking Kamino,
"Hevy" sacrificed himself to alert Republic forces of the enemy fleet, causing the Separatists to retreat and call off their attack.
and General Grievous, a massive force hit Kamino in an attempt to end clone creation for the Republic. Jedi Generals Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi with the
were sent to assist in the planet's defense alongside Jedi General
. The two-pronged assault saw Ventress lead
beneath the surface of the planet's oceans to sneak up on
as the two fleets clashed above the watery planet. Many
invaded the cloning facilities, killing many clone troopers, including
. Ventress successfully stole the prime sample of the clone trooper DNA template, but she was attacked by Skywalker, who, with the assistance of a force of clones, reclaimed the DNA. Republic forces managed to defeat the Separatists and cloning continued on the planet.
Unknown to the Jedi Order, the leaders of Kamino were in league with Count Dooku, whom they knew as "Lord Tyranus."
, who fought against Separatist droids deployed in the battle.
Late in the war, the Sith's plan to destroy the Jedi using the clone troopers was almost revealed. During the
, nicknamed Tup, executed the Jedi Master
during the confrontation due to a defect in his
. Wanting answers, it was decided that the clone would be sent to Kamino.
The Kaminoan leadership did everything possible to prevent the truth about the chips from being revealed, that they would guarantee the clones' obedience when the order to destroy the Jedi was given. Although Tup died during a procedure carried out without permission to remove the chip by his clone friend
the threat to the Sith plan did not end while Fives continued to investigate. Fives found that all clones had chips and decided to remove his, and he and the two chips were sent to Coruscant for analysis.
Fives was eventually killed on Coruscant and the truth about the chips was kept secret.
The Empire is not like the Republic. We have empowered them to our own detriment. I fear they will destroy us rather than allow this operation to continue.
With end of the Clone Wars, Kamino's clone production was in danger of becoming obsolete under the Galactic Empire.
, rumors spread throughout the Imperial ranks that the cloning facilities in Kamino were to be closed down, which concerned the clones.
Shortly after its establishment, Imperial
arrived on Kamino to discuss the status of the new
with Lama Su. Tarkin informed the Prime Minister that the Empire was reluctant to continue using clones. He added that the Empire, the successor to the Republic, was no longer bound to contracts signed with the Kaminoans. Upon seeing a group of enhanced clones—
, also known as "the Bad Batch"—cause a disturbance in the mess hall, Tarkin requested they undergo a battle simulation before sending them on a
, claiming they would encounter Separatist insurgents.
On Onderon, the Bad Batch encountered civilians instead of rebels, and the
"Crosshair"—chose to disobey their orders. The Bad Batch discovered that Tarkin used a
to observe their mission. Nevertheless, the Bad Batch decided to return to Kamino to rescue the young enhanced clone
, who earlier warned against returning to the planet. Upon arrival, they were captured, and Crosshair was taken away to a medical chamber. Learning that the commando's inhibitor chip had, unlike the other members of his squad, responded to Order 66, Tarkin increased its effectiveness to turn Crosshair to the Empire's side. Donning new Imperial gear, Crosshair and a force of
attempted to stall Omega and the Bad Batch from departing the hangar, only for Nala Se to secretly override the door controls. Evading Crosshair and the other Imperial forces on Kamino, the Bad Batch left for the
Crosshair was then placed in charge of an
in Tipoca City were then cleaned out and used by Crosshair's elite squad.
The Empire slowly dismantled the cloning program as the troops in the Imperial Army were gradually replaced by non-clone recruits.
As the Empire began to cancel contracts, the Kaminoans grew wary of them and made arrangements to flee from the Empire, only to be foiled. The Empire had the Prime Minister arrested, with Chief Scientist Nala Se forced to cooperate with the Empire and disclose her scientific knowledge.
Decommissioning of the cloning facilities
With the cloning process over, the Empire destroys Tipoca City, causing the city to sink into the ocean.
Hunter, who was captured by the Empire while extracting a clone
, was brought back to Kamino by Crosshair. The rest of the Bad Batch returned to the planet to extract Hunter. Noticing the absence of troops and the facilities stripped down, the Bad Batch encountered Crosshair and his squad with Hunter in the training chamber. Crosshair offered the Bad Batch to join the Empire, declaring that they were superior to the "regs" and that they would aid the Empire in establishing order as its elite squad. Chaos ensued, as Crosshair fired on his squad-mates to make his point and Omega activated the battle droids.
, who oversaw the evacuation of all remaining clone troopers and essential personnel from Kamino, abandoned Crosshair and received the order from Tarkin to destroy Tipoca City. As the Bad Batch attempted to return to their shuttle, they were caught in the bombardment and fled back inside the falling city.
Like Tipoca City, all other Kaminoan facilities the Empire knew of were targeted and destroyed, causing their civilization to sink beneath the waves. Alerted to their success by a
, Rampart ordered his trio of Star Destroyers to reunite with his overall fleet, leaving the remains of Tipoca City to sink into the ocean, completing the Imperial withdrawal from Kamino. Meanwhile, through the actions of Omega and AZI-3, Crosshair was saved from drowning and reunited with his former squad, regrouping in their former barracks, which had ironically become one of the few rooms that was temporally safe to reside in. After the squad debates about Crosshair's recent actions, the group decided to make their way to Nala Se's secret laboratory, evading a
Omega seeing smoke from where Tipoca City used to be.
Aided by AZI-3, the squad made their way up to the ocean's surface by stowing themselves in the very growth jars they had been created in. When AZI-3 began to run out of power and sink into the depths of the sea, Omega risked her life to save her robotic friend, exiting her jar to swim after him. It was only because of Crosshair, who shot a grapple line from his sniper into the water, that she and AZI-3 were brought to the surface, even though the rest of the Bad Batch had initially assumed Crosshair was going to shoot Hunter.
The Bad Batch and Omega, minus Crosshair mourns for the loss of their home.
the clones looked out at the wreckage of their home, mourning for the loss of their birthplace before turning away to loading onto the starship. As the squad prepared to leave, Crosshair denied their offer to rejoin, intending to stay with the Empire. Omega reminded him that he was still their brother before Clone Force 99 departed, leaving Crosshair alone on Kamino to be picked up by incoming Imperial scouts. The sky of Kamino was clear when the Bad Batch left their homeworld.
, Imperial officials including Vice-Admiral Rampart claimed that the planet had been devastated by a cataclysmic storm, that had destroyed the cloning facilities and almost annihilated the Kaminoan population. Rampart claimed that he had been unable to intervene since he was in an off-world training exercise. Despite Rampart's efforts to suppress the truth behind Kamino's devastation, the Clone trooper
, attempted to convince Rampart to tell the
the truth. Rampart sent the Clone assassin
, who was sympathetic to the plight of Clone troopers, before being assassinated by Clone X. The assassin was subdued by fugitive
Chuchi sought the help of the Bad Batch clones in exposing Rampart's role in the attack on Kamino. The Bad Batch managed to infiltrate Rampart's flagship and uncover footage of Rampart's fleet bombarding Tipoca City. In addition, Chuchi and
that Rampart had diverted Senate funds earmarked for the cloning facilities. Using these pieces of information, Chuchi was able to temporarily derail the
and expose Rampart's role in the destruction of Kamino. In response,
ordered Rampart's arrest and claimed he was acting against Imperial orders. However, Palpatine was still able to use the devastation of Kamino to convince the Imperial Senate to pass the Bill by claiming that Rampart's clones had followed his orders without question.
Galactic Society of Creature Enthusiasts
Galactic Society of Creature Enthusiasts
, visited the planet to witness a Kamoradon hatching.
Fighting a war tests a soldier's skills, defending his home tests a soldier's heart.
promised to explain the mystery behind the erasure of Kamino from the Jedi Archives in
. However, after refocusing the story on Anakin Skywalker, Lucas opted to sacrifice extraneous plot points related to
that the mystery behind Kamino's deletion from the Archives would be revealed in the
The location of Kamino has not been consistent throughout the
, but states that it lay beyond the Outer Rim.
Star Wars: The Prequel Trilogy – A Graphic Novel
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
Choose Your Destiny: A Clone Trooper Mission
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
Smuggler's Run: A Han Solo & Chewbacca Adventure
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Very Interesting, As an Astrogation Problem
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
"Rookies" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Cargo of Doom" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
Helmets: Boba Fett — Notorious Bounty Hunter
Databank A-Z: Jar Jar Binks–B'omarr Order
Highlights of the Saga: The Secret of Kamino
Weapons & Uniforms: The Grand Army of the Republic
Highlights of the Saga: Battle on Geonosis
Databank A-Z: Saw Gerrera–Commander Gree
Guide to the Galaxy: The History of Polis Massa
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle of Geonosis
Starship Fact File: Delta-7 Aethersprite Starfighter
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Guide to the Galaxy: Umbara — Shadow World
Databank A-Z: Admiral Wiskovis–The Works
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia: Updated and Expanded
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
Weapons & Uniforms: Veterans of the Clone Wars
Weapons & Uniforms: The 41st Elite Corps
Databank A-Z: Trident Assault Ship–Turbolasers
Highlights of the Saga: Liberating Lothal
Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
Star Wars: How Not to Get Eaten by Ewoks and Other Galactic Survival Skills
75243 Slave I - 20th Anniversary Edition
"The Sin" Episode Guide | The Mandalorian
Republic, Rebel, and Resistance Starfighters
"Aftermath" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
"Cut and Run" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
"Replacements" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
"Bounty Lost" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
"War-Mantle" Episode Guide - The Bad Batch
"Return To Kamino" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
"Kamino Lost" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy
Under the Helmet: The Legacy of Boba Fett
10 of Obi-Wan Kenobi's Greatest Moments (So Far)
Obi-Wan Wednesdays: Reva Figure Revealed and More!
Lucasfilm, Marvel Studios, and 20th Century Studios Showcase Electrifying New Slate at D23 Expo 2022
"The Empire Is Everywhere": The Creators of
Young Jedi Adventures Release Date, Billy Dee Williams Joins Star Wars Celebration Europe, and More!
Has Revealed About the Rise of the Empire
"We Keep Pushing": Joel Aron on Elevating the Look of
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
Star Wars: The Secrets of the Clone Troopers
The Star Wars Bestiary, Volume 1: Creatures of the Galaxy
Star Wars Bestiary, Vol. 1: Creatures of the Galaxy
Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy
Star Wars: Complete Locations, New Edition
s Dedra Meero and Other Sleuths Solving Mysteries in the
Exegol, the Unknown Regions and Wild Space
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Star Wars: Complete Locations, New Edition
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, Updated and Expanded
brought them there between the events of
. Therefore, porgs must have been introduced to Batuu between those stories, which corresponds to