This article has multiple issues and is in need of major additions and/or work.
It is requested that this article, or a section of this article, be expanded. ({{
Parts of this article have been identified as no longer being up to date. ({{
}}) The article needs to be updated with
Star Wars Lightsabers: A Guide to Weapons of the Force
Please help Wookieepedia by editing this article. Once you have fixed an issue, you may remove it from the list of issues. See this article's
This article, or a section of this article, may not be written in the formal tone expected of an encyclopedia entry.
Please improve the article or discuss proposed changes on the
: Usually flat with either one or two sharp sides
An elegant weapon for a more civilized age.
―Obi-Wan Kenobi giving Luke Skywalker his father's lightsaber
by those who were unfamiliar with it, was a weapon usually used by the
, and could be shut off at will or at the touch of a button. The hilt contained a
which had been attuned to the Force by a Jedi, and which amplified the energy from the power cell to create the plasma beam, as well as containing it within a blade-like field.
The energy blade had no mass, but lightsabers operated on principles of controlled electromagnetic arc-wave energy, creating a gyroscopic effect that made them challenging to handle.
It was a weapon that required skill and training, and was greatly enhanced when used in conjunction with
. Though also used by the Sith, the lightsaber was synonymous with the Jedi, with some in
believing only Jedi could use lightsabers.
Lightsabers were generally used for both offense and defense. A lightsaber could cut through virtually anything, from flesh to blast doors. The only ways to block the incoming attack of a lightsaber was with a
weapon made with material that conducted energy
, or another lightsaber. When used defensively, a Force-sensitive could deflect
bolts with a lightsaber, and with skill, could even reflect the shots back toward the shooter or some other target. Experienced Jedi could even employ their lightsabers to absorb
. Most practitioners used one single-bladed lightsaber, though some used
or even multiple lightsabers at once. Despite lacking Force-sensitivity, the
was capable of wielding four lightsabers at once thanks to his advanced mechanical body and enhanced
I don't get to treat many lightsaber wounds. It's such an old weapon. People today prefer to fight with rifles and blasters, from long range.
lightsabers were used thousands of years before the
was an ancient type of prototype lightsaber.
Members of the Jedi Order wielded lightsabers in the name of protecting life and the light side.
During the history of the Jedi Order, the lightsaber was considered to be the Jedi's only true ally in battle.
As Master Obi-Wan Kenobi once declared to his Padawan Anakin Skywalker in the days of the late Republic, the lightsaber was a Jedi's life.
Jedi saw the lightsaber as a symbol of the care that they would wield using their gifts given by the Force, and also served as a message to their opponents: mastering the lightsaber required great skill and training. The choice of the saber was also the symbol of their role and duty as protectors, not destroyers, and the fact that the Jedi did not seek power and only sought to stand tall against darkness.
Still, Jedi knew they would need to be more than their lightsabers.
, reminded her that she would need to act as a Jedi without the weapon. While finding a kyber crystal was still a sacred part of a Jedi's duty and Keen felt like losing her lightsaber would feel like losing part of herself, she willingly gave away the crystal if it meant finding more about the
dealt with emotional struggles that lead to his lightsaber beam turning transparent and weak.
Lightsabers took on a more prominent role in galactic affairs as the
came to pass. Jedi, previously peacekeepers, became
, and thus began using their lightsabers more often than they had in their role of peacekeeping.
And to think one day our children will ask what is this thing? This relic of a corrupt institution destroyed by its own arrogance.
Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi readies his lightsaber for his final duel against his former disciple, Darth Vader.
For the majority of the Empire's reign, the only lightsabers that were prominently used were those of
All the same, there were still lightsabers used by Jedi survivors and those they trained, like
, a design of an older, more dangerous generation.
tried to recreate the lightsaber through the
Rey and Kylo Ren, a dyad in the Force, both use lightsabers in combat.
After the Empire was defeated, Luke began training a new generation of Jedi.
as her Padawan, with Wren first taking on the
before becoming Ahsoka's padawan, then after becoming Ahsokas Padawan she took on
in his possession, did manage to return to the galaxy as well, however.
Skywalker's new generation of Jedi were killed in the
, once again leading to a time where the only prominent lightsaber user was a
. That all changed when a scavenger, Rey, discovered the
and ultimately came to train under Luke Skywalker and his twin sister Leia Organa to combat Kylo Ren and the First Order during a war against the Imperial successors.
After the war, Rey ritually buried her masters'
on Luke's home planet, Tatooine, to end the Skywalker family's suffering. She ignited
to show her complete journey as a Jedi, and, to honor the Skywalkers' legacy, she took the Skywalker name as her surname after receiving the blessing from the
of her masters when she was asked by a local.
A lightsaber has five main parts. The power cell, the casing, the focusing lens, the emitter and, of course, the
. The rest is just wiring, an on/off switch, and whatever fancy extra bits people want to build in. All in all though, it's a pretty simple device.
The inner workings of Kylo Ren's lightsaber
A lightsaber drew power from an appropriately-sized power cell.
Parts that would work to make a lightsaber include modulation circuits and an energy gate. Ones that were necessary included a blade emitter shroud, the
, and some type of activator to turn the weapon on and off. Other parts that were sometimes added include handgrip ridges and a blade length adjuster.
Some lightsabers also featured a non-lethal low-power setting used for training.
Single-bladed lightsabers usually had a belt ring so they could be hung from a belt hook, or a wheel-shaped attachment that slotted into a matching belt clip on the owner's belt when not in use.
Specially designed lightsabers could even use unstable
, which featured two laterally facing vents designed to divert excess energy away from the cracked crystal and keep the lightsaber stable. This also had the effect of creating a protective
During assembly, it was important to not accidentally invert the emitter matrix; when activated the lightsabers' power grid would backfire. At best this could cause the blade to quickly short out, but if it was left on, the faulty weapon would violently explode, potentially killing those in close proximity.
It's a metal cylinder, about this long, with black grips and a few switches on the side.
Lightsaber hilts were made up of multiple parts that enveloped and protected the internal components. Metal ranging from simple alloys to
was usually chosen to make up the hilt. However, other materials were also chosen by lightsaber users, such as the
Inlays decorating the hilt could be made of materials such as
, or the bone of certain creatures such as the
Each piece of the hilt was aesthetically tailored towards one of multiple different design philosophies, which both informed and were informed by the maker's choice of materials, ideology, and personal preferences.
A more practical design choice a user could make was to fit the weapon to their
Various types of lightsabers were in use during the
The former two were simple designs intended to reflect the Jedi commitment to a life of devotion to the Force and the Order's ideals.
The latter two made use of resilient natural materials derived from flora and fauna to evoke the living Force.
Both were characterized by sharp and strong forms that showcased their owners' brutality, relentlessness, and insatiable desire for supremacy.
, was favored by the earliest Force users in ancient times. It featured designs and inscriptions with meanings that have become shrouded in mystery, but the style itself was believed to have been created with the intent of conferring anonymity upon and symbolizing the emotional detachment of the wielder, who would use their lightsaber strictly for personal protection.
"Energy constantly flows through the crystal. You're not fighting with a simple blade as much as you are directing a current of power.
using his lightsaber to cut through one of the
The power of the energy blade was so great that it could cut through almost anything. One important note about lightsaber wounds was that they rarely bled profusely, even when a limb had been
This was because the energy blade cauterized the wound as it passed, and thus even a severe wound did not tend to bleed heavily.
Aside from the blade of another lightsaber, there were rare materials that could withstand a lightsaber blade:
. It was also capable of resisting a lightsaber strikes. The
incorporated layers of armorweave to provide them with an effective defense against blaster bolts and lightsabers.
Pure beskar could repel lightsaber strikes for a period of time.
was specially crafted steel made from an iron found only on the planet
Examples of its use in that way included
armor was able to resist lightsaber strikes, with the gauntlets being capable of parrying one directly. However, a direct thrust or stab could still penetrate the armor. Their high-tech weapons are also resistant to lightsaber strikes.
armor, made by specially weaving cortosis fibers within a protective matrix, was able to redirect a lightsaber's energy into itself which would cause the lightsaber's blade to temporarily shut off upon contact with the armor.
was impervious to kyber crystal lightsabers. However, swapping out a lightsabers' kyber crystal for a kohlen crystal would produce a low-powered
blade which was capable of slicing through the shields.
is impervious to lightsaber blades. A staff made of this material was once on display during the
are capable of emitting electrical charges to effectively repel and resist clashing with a lightsaber without them being damaged.
's armor was invulnerable to lightsabers strikes.
were all able to use their lightsabers underwater with no ill effects.
Whilst in areas of low light, the glowing plasma blade could function as a convenient light source, demonstrated by
A Twi'lek Jedi using the Force to assemble a lightsaber out of several components
A lightsaber was built up from several different components:
, main hilt, kyber crystal, lightsaber energy core, hand grip, inert power insulator, and the pommel cap. All of these components were incredibly important to keeping the lightsaber fixed together and allowed a Jedi to fight without it falling apart and stopped the saber from exploding upon activation. Every lightsaber's hilt was customised to the individual Jedi's needs and preferences, but no matter the appearance, each weapon contained the same basic element - Power Insulators, cycling field energizers, energy modulation circuits, a focusing lens, a blade emitter and most important the energy core which contains a kyber crystal. Once a few control dials were added, which would have been responsible for changing the intensity and length of the blade, the lightsaber would be complete.
The heart of the lightsaber, the kyber crystal is, focuses the force from the Jedi, it does.
Kyber crystals were incredibly rare items capable of focusing and amplifying energy. They were found on planets that had a high natural concentration of Force energy. The main planets in which they were found were
, however Ilum was more commonly used as it was the planet in which
went to actually construct a lightsaber. Each kyber crystal was unique and required a Force-sensitive individual to align and activate it during the lightsaber assembly process. Once found, a kyber crystal would have originally been clear, but once it was awakened by the Force, its color would shift to match the nature of the saber's master. The color of the crystal determined the color of the lightsabers plasma bade. Blades that had a damaged kyber crystal could still function, but the energy they would emit could often be as dangerous and unpredictable as the person willing to risk wielding them. Some individuals such as Kylo Ren wielded these unstable crystals, usually with modifications to accommodate the unstable kyber.
The construction of a lightsaber began on the planet of Ilum. In a very specific time in the planet's solar cycle, a small group of Jedi younglings would begin the 1000 year old ritual known as the Gathering, escorted by a Jedi Knight. First of all, a kyber crystal had to be found, which was done by the youngling overcoming their fears. Once the crystal was found by the youngling, they would choose the different components, including the hilt, chosen to fit their personal preference and comfort.
Next, the youngling would activate their kyber crystal and begin to construct their lightsaber. This was done using
whilst following a diagram given to them by an engineer. Once completed, the lightsaber would have been ready to ignite. As well as this, the younglings then had the knowledge to construct a lightsaber in the future should their current one be destroyed.
The sheer number of Jedi active during the days of the
naturally resulted in countless variations in the designs of lightsabers. Some of these modifications were merely for the exterior looks of the saber, while others enhanced the sabers functionality in unique ways. While the traditional single bladed lightsaber was the design most Jedi used, some preferred creative adaptation of this classic weapon.
Maul wielded a lightsaber that served as both a Sith lightsaber and a double-bladed lightsaber.
—The lightsabers wielded by members of the Sith. The designs of Sith lightsabers depended on the user.
—Double-bladed lightsabers consisted of a hilt that projected a blade from both ends, resulting in a deadly staff-like weapon.
that could fold in half, making it easier to store while not in use.
—A double-bladed spinning lightsaber projected a blade from each end of the hilt. However, the hilt was as long as a single-bladed lightsaber, with a circular rim that, when activated, could spin the blades along a track.
—A split saber consisted of two separate lightsabers that join together forming a double-bladed lightsaber.
blades on each side of the staff, lightsaber pikes were used by the
—A dual-phase lightsaber contained one or multiple focusing
, which allowed its blade length to be extended or shortened in the middle of combat.
—A lightsaber with a broad flat blade that resembled a traditional
—A great lightsaber was a lightsaber made for individuals with a giant stature.
, a crossguard lightsaber consisted of a standard blade with two shorter blades perpendicular to it at the end of the hilt.
—Curved-hilt lightsabers were of a design which featured a hilt with a built in curve. This was usually done to allow the hilt to fit better into the palm, facilitating the use of one-handed fighting styles such as
—A standard lightsaber concealed as the head of a cane. In combat, the handle would be detached from the body of the cane and wielded normally.
—Training lightsabers were engineered with a permanent low-power setting. As their name indicates, training lightsabers were used for instructional purposes, teaching initiates how to wield a lightsaber.
—A shoto was a short lightsaber. Featuring a shortened blade length, shotos were usually used as the secondary weapon in
—A guard shoto was a lightsaber with a hilt perpendicular to the blade that gave a unique way of blocking and attacking.
—A lightwhip had a flexible blade that was several meters long, and could entangle opponents.
—A single bladed lightsaber that can separate into two pieces, with the main body and grip of the hilt in one part and the other bearing the emitter shroud. To use the lightsaber, the user merely needed to insert the emitter section into the main body and twist to lock them together.
—A single bladed lightsaber with an attachment that allowed it to fire blaster bolts.
—An unique ancient lightsaber with a black blade that was flattened and came to a point like a traditional sword, rather than the rounded beam of standard lightsabers.
—A lightsaber that produced a sickle-shaped blade.
--A single handed slim lightsaber used by early
There also existed a type of blaster known as a
which was designed to be combined with a lightsaber. To work, the user would insert a standard lightsaber into a slot on top of the rifle. Once loaded, the weapon could fire powerful beams of energy that were highly destructive.
both owned a lightsaber that had two different colored kyber crystals, allowing it to change colors from green to blue.
We do not want to be powerful. We wish to stand tall against the dark. Our tools reflect that goal. Especially our chosen weapon. We all wield the same one, with minor variations. The lightsaber. We could make kyber bombs or blasters… Indeed, it's been tried. There are a few weapons like that in the sealed archives. But anyone can fire a blaster. Very few can safely and skillfully wield a lightsaber. Everyone in the galaxy knows this to be true. We want our opponents to know that we use a weapon that requires intention. Training, precision and choice. The lightsaber symbolizes the care with which we approach our gifts through the Force and the care with which we wield them. It reminds others that while we could do more… We very purposefully do not. Take it, my Padawan. We choose a weapon with limitations—with difficulties. You cannot use a lightsaber to destroy a city or a planet. Every death or injury it inflicts must be precisely chosen. The lightsaber tells the galaxy that the Jedi are not destroyers. We are protectors.
The Jedi used their lightsabers to bring an end to conflicts.
The intended purpose of the lightsaber was to bring an end to conflicts, being designed to injure no more than its wielder chose. Additionally, there was no collateral damage from lightsaber strikes
unless the blade happened to hit a target on accident.
If death was deemed necessary, the blade was designed to kill quickly. Even though the Jedi held themselves to these rules,
the groups like the Sith chose to use their lightsabers in ways that caused suffering.
felt that the lightsaber was designed to give an enemy a chance to surrender, as its trademark glow and hum made it easy to spot and hear. Furthermore, he believed the blade's sound was one of training, focus, and skill; it was the sound of a Jedi's last resort and was the art of their Order.
Although Sith were also known to wield lightsabers, they viewed the dark side of the Force as their primary weapon, with the saber serving as a symbol of the dark side and the way it consumed all who opposed it.
Energy constantly flows through the crystal. You're not fighting with a simple blade as much as you are directing a current of power. Your thoughts, your actions, they become energy. They flow through the crystal as well and become a part of the blade.
engage in lightsaber combat above Coruscant.
was the preferred fighting method used by lightsaber wielders. Throughout the millennia, many combat styles were refined into the seven "classic" forms that serve as the standard,
and numerous other fighting methods that call for advanced levels of skill. Lightsabers were most often held with both hands during combat.
By the right of the Council, by the will of the Force, Kanan Jarrus, you may rise.
―An apparition of The Grand Inquisitor as a Jedi knights Kanan Jarrus
Lightsabers were an integral part of the
During the ceremony, a Padawan would have their Padawan braid ritualistically severed by the presiding Jedi Master.
Kyber crystals were collected from a Jedi's lightsaber if they fell in battle. Many of these crystals were then formed into the
, which became a site for meditation in the Jedi Temple.
A bacta-treated lightsaber penetration wound on human skin
Lightsabers were able to cut through most materials.
The glowing plasma blade could be used as a convenient light source when necessary.
Lightsabers can also be used to evaporate some liquids due to the heat it generates.
The original concept was that the Jedi would fight with swords, and I wanted to make it a sort of laser sword, to give it that technology edge
―George Lucas on the early development of the lightsaber
The usage of the lightsaber was originally inspired by many of the serials that
watched and enjoyed as a child, which featured many characters wielding swords. When he began conceiving
, he wished to include swords, creating the "lightsaber" to allow them to better mesh with the futuristic setting.
storyline, lightsabers were not exclusive to the Jedi and other Force-users, but were in fact very mundane. Early concept art depicts lightsabers being wielded by Rebel and Imperial soldiers alike. George Lucas later limited the lightsabers to exclusively the Jedi in order to make them feel more unusual, and heighten the mystique of the Jedi.
of the script, lightsabers were referred to as "lazerswords."
simply as an embedded decoration on the hilt in the original film's
. Aside from this single instance, there are no crystals mentioned in any of the movies or their novelizations.
Some sounds, like the lightsaber—fashioned from an old movie projector motor hum and a TV picture tube buzz—came immediately to mind when I first read the script for
A Graflex flash similar to the one used for Luke Skywalker's first lightsaber
was made from a Graflex camera side-attach flash, while
was made from a Micro Precision Products flash attachment. The handle grips were made with T-shaped pieces of plastic from sliding glass cabinet windows and, contrary to popular belief, were not made with rubber windshield wipers. D-rings were attached to the bottoms of the units so that they could be worn on belts.
was the most complex hilt at the time. It was assembled from parts of an Armitage Shanks Starlite model Handwheel, Browning ANM2 machine gun booster, WWI No.3 Mk.1 British Rifle Grenade and a Rolls-Royce Derwent Mk.8/Mk.9 Jet Engine Balance Pipe.
, who was working for DePatie–Freleng Enterprises at the time, was asked by his manager if he could animate the lightsaber in the live action scenes of a film. After Shin accepted the assignment, the live action footage was given to him. He drew the lightsabers with a rotoscope, an animation which was superimposed onto the footage of the physical lightsaber blade prop. Shin explained to the people from Lucasfilm that since a lightsaber is made of light, the sword should look "a little shaky" like a fluorescent tube. He suggested inserting one frame that was much lighter than the others while printing the film on an optical printer, making the light seem to vibrate. Shin also recommended adding a degausser sound on top of the other sounds for the weapon since the sound would be reminiscent of a magnetic field. The whole process took one week, surprising his company. Lucasfilm showed Shin the finished product, having followed his suggestions to use an X-Acto knife to give the lightsaber a very sharp look, and to have sound accompany the weapon's movements.
started out in a very complicated manner. During the filming of
, the blade was made of a three-sided rod covered with reflective material. The rod was then rapidly spun by a compact motor in the hilt, reflecting the lights on set and creating an in-camera glowing effect. However, these props were highly limited; they were cumbersome and fragile, often breaking during fight scenes. Also, the glowing effect was not absolute, as whenever the blade moved out of the light or pointed more directly at the camera the glow disappeared and the actual spinning rod could be seen. In order to partially compensate for this loss of the effect, the blade was rotoscoped and an animated glow was added by tracing onto a blown-up copy of the frame with pen and colored ink, one frame at a time. It was at this phase that blades were given colors, as the props were simple white rods.
, it was decided creating an in-camera glowing effect was more trouble than it was worth, so the spinning rods were swapped for carbon rods. While these new blades were less cumbersome than before, they were still very fragile and frequently broke. However, they continued to be used for
, the new lightsaber blades were steel and aluminum rods, which were highly durable, but frequently bent and flexed, requiring constant replacement.
Despite such a drawback, these rods still saw usage during the filming of
, as they had no alternative at the time. However, for the filming of
, the blades were replaced by carbon fiber rods laminated with glass and plastic. These new props were highly durable and didn't flex, though they were extremely hard, often causing bruising and leaving scars. While lightsaber effects were still done by rotoscoping for the
, they were done digitally, rather than by hand.
, the lightsaber props glowed, using a similar effect used in
during the fight between Anakin Skywalker and Count Dooku. In behind the scenes footage, it was revealed that the actors were using blades similar to the ones made by
. This not only added to the environmental realism that was desired by providing interactive lighting on the actors and the set, but also immersed the actors in the lightsaber experience, building on the performance and convincing nature of the lightsaber effect.
Lightsabers depicted in the first two released films,
, had blades that were colored either blue (for the Jedi) or red (for the Sith). This color difference was a decision during post-production when the lightsaber blades were being rotoscoped, as the original blades were simply white.
was colored blue during the initial editing of the film, and appears so in both an early movie trailer and the official theatrical posters, but in the final film, it was ultimately colored green in order to better stand out against the blue sky of Tatooine in outdoor scenes and to make it more obvious to the audience that the new lightsaber was different from Luke's one in
It also appeared as green in re-release posters.
Lightsaber blades with green, white, and blue colors appear together in live action via
Both green and blue became standard blade colors for Jedi lightsabers in the
prequel trilogy. In the same regard, red became the standard Sith lightsaber blade.
as a way to make his character stand out among other Jedi.
Jackson's favorite color is purple and he frequently requests the characters he plays to use an item of the color in his movies. In addition, there are yellow,
Such blades can visibly see seen in works like
The yellow lightsaber blade made its live-action debut in the final scene of
, as did indigo, cyan, and magenta blades.
, orange-red lightsabers appeared in the form of Shin Hati and Baylan Skoll's lightsaber blades in
. To Filoni, the color signals to the audience that Hati and Skoll are not characters who fulfill the same narrative role as the Sith.
inside also produced an orange blade, but with an intensity that made it mostly useless against anything other than a specialized type of shield which was also powered by a kohlen crystal.
practices dueling with the stunt doubles of
While the usage of lightsabers was originally inspired by rapiers featured in the old serials George Lucas enjoyed, the final choreography in
looked nothing like fencing. As Jedi and their Sith counterparts were heavily inspired by
, the fighting styles utilized were based more on
The slower, more strength-oriented moves of kendo used in the Obi-Wan/Vader duel also helped mesh with Lucas' concept that it was a battle between what were essentially two old men.
, Lucas began ramping up the speed of the duels, making them "faster and more intense," the idea being that Luke Skywalker was becoming increasingly proficient with the weapon.
, the actor within the Darth Vader costume, for the duels, they instead had professional swordsman
perform the fights, due to Prowse's tendency to repeatedly break the fragile prop blades. Anderson continued to serve as Prowse's fighting double during the filming of
ramped up the speed and agility the characters demonstrated in lightsaber duels, the idea being that the prequels took place when the Jedi Order was in "full flower," at least in terms of combat techniques.
Gillard was careful to avoid giving the fight scenes a choreographed look, drawing upon his extensive knowledge of martial arts to create the moves. The end result was a very fast-paced style of fighting, which he described as being like a chess game between grand masters, with every move being a check. This style of choreography was continued on throughout the prequel trilogy.
Ewan McGregor practices lightsaber combat with Nick Gillard.
, Gillard ran sparring matches with stars
One practice drill between McGregor and Gillard was captured in a photo later uploaded to
It was during some of Gillard's training sessions with the actors that he was approached by animation director
for helping in figuring out Yoda's fighting style: in the script Coleman was given, all it said about Yoda and Dooku's duel was that it would "[defy] description." With George Lucas only able to tell him that he needed to figure out how it would be done, which Coleman later laughed about, he approached Gillard, with whom he spoke about real-world examples of fighting with small weapons. Additionally,
, gave Coleman several anime examples for help in figuring out the battle. Ultimately, he figured out Yoda's speed and style upon watching a scene in the film
Yoda pulling back his cloak to retrieve his lightsaber came at Lucas's request as it called to mind images of a gunslinger retrieving their pistol. Lucas and Coleman were both very happy with the finalized duel between Yoda and Dooku, with Lucas in specific approving of the way Yoda jumped around because it was what he wanted. Coleman was nervous such actions would be seen as "too cartoony." When the screening he attended lit up with excitement at Yoda's fighting style, Coleman was relieved.
to produce multiple blades that sprung up from its sides like a
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
Star Wars Insider: The High Republic: Tales of Enlightenment
The High Republic: Quest for the Hidden City
The High Republic Adventures: Quest of the Jedi
Tales of Enlightenment: A Different Perspective
Star Wars Insider: The High Republic: Tales of Enlightenment
Tales of Enlightenment: The Unusual Suspect
Star Wars Insider: The High Republic: Tales of Enlightenment
Tales of Enlightenment: No Such Thing as a Bad Customer
Star Wars Insider: The High Republic: Tales of Enlightenment
Star Wars Insider: The High Republic: Tales of Enlightenment
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
Star Wars Insider: The High Republic: Tales of Enlightenment
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
The High Republic Adventures Annual 2021
The High Republic Adventures Annual 2021
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures: Galactic Training
Young Jedi Adventures: My First Comic Reader Level 1
Young Jedi Adventures: My First Comic Reader Level 1
Young Jedi Adventures: My First Comic Reader Level 1
Young Jedi Adventures: My First Comic Reader Level 1
Young Jedi Adventures: My First Comic Reader Level 1
Young Jedi Adventures: My First Comic Reader Level 1
The High Republic: The Great Jedi Rescue
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures—The Training Sessions
The High Republic Adventures — The Monster of Temple Peak
The High Republic Adventures — The Monster of Temple Peak
The High Republic Adventures — The Monster of Temple Peak
The High Republic Adventures — The Monster of Temple Peak
The High Republic: Race to Crashpoint Tower
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
The High Republic Adventures Annual 2021
The High Republic Adventures: Galactic Bake-Off Spectacular
The High Republic: The Battle for Starlight
The High Republic – Shadows of Starlight
The High Republic – Shadows of Starlight
The High Republic – Shadows of Starlight
The High Republic – Shadows of Starlight
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
The High Republic: The Edge of Balance: Precedent
The High Republic Adventures – The Nameless Terror
The High Republic Adventures – The Nameless Terror
The High Republic Adventures – The Nameless Terror
The High Republic Adventures – The Nameless Terror
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
The High Republic Adventures: Crash Landing
The High Republic Adventures: Crash and Burn
The High Republic: Temptation of the Force
The High Republic: Tears of the Nameless
The High Republic Adventures – Echoes of Fear
The High Republic Adventures – Echoes of Fear
The High Republic Adventures – Echoes of Fear
The High Republic Adventures – Echoes of Fear
The High Republic Adventures – Saber for Hire
The High Republic Adventures – Saber for Hire
The High Republic Adventures – Saber for Hire
The High Republic Adventures – Saber for Hire
The High Republic: The Edge of Balance: Premonition
Three Younglings & the Snackfrog of Doom
The High Republic Adventures Phase III Annual
The Adventures of Churo the Hutt and the Heart of Eroudac
The High Republic Adventures Phase III Annual
The High Republic Adventures Phase III Annual
The High Republic Adventures – Dispatches from the Occlusion Zone
The High Republic Adventures – Dispatches from the Occlusion Zone
The High Republic Adventures – Dispatches from the Occlusion Zone
The High Republic Adventures – Dispatches from the Occlusion Zone
The High Republic Adventures Phase III - The Wedding Spectacular
The High Republic Adventures Phase III - The Battle of Eriadu
Star Wars: The Prequel Trilogy – A Graphic Novel
Choose Your Destiny: An Obi-Wan & Anakin Adventure
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
Galactic Tales: From The Shadows Come The Kran
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
Choose Your Destiny: A Clone Trooper Mission
Hyperspace Stories: The Bad Batch—Ghost Agents
Hyperspace Stories: The Bad Batch—Ghost Agents
Hyperspace Stories: The Bad Batch—Ghost Agents
Hyperspace Stories: The Bad Batch—Ghost Agents
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
Forces of Destiny: Daring Adventures: Volume 1
Forces of Destiny: Daring Adventures: Volume 2
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
Solo: A Star Wars Story: Expanded Edition
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
The Secret Jedi: The Adventures of Kanan Jarrus: Rebel Leader
Servants of the Empire: Rebel in the Ranks
Servants of the Empire: The Secret Academy
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
A New Hope: The Princess, the Scoundrel, and the Farm Boy
The Adventures of Luke Skywalker, Jedi Knight
Star Wars: The Original Trilogy – A Graphic Novel
(Appears in final page illustration only)
The Princess and the Bog, A Twin Tale, Part 1
The Princess and the Bog, A Twin Tale, Part 2
The Weapon of a Jedi: A Luke Skywalker Adventure
Star Wars Adventures: The Weapon of a Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
The Empire Strikes Back: So You Want to Be a Jedi?
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Luke vs. Imperial Walkers - Commander on Hoth
Tales of Villainy: Invasion of Echo Base
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Luke Skywalker vs. Darth Vader – Join Me
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Moving Target: A Princess Leia Adventure
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Return of the Jedi: Beware the Power of the Dark Side!
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Star Wars Galactic Stories: 7 Stories from a Galaxy Far, Far Away....
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Luke vs. Emperor Palpatine - Rise to Evil
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Star Wars Adventures: Shadow of Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Chapter 6: From the Desert Comes a Stranger
Part Eight: The Jedi, the Witch, and the Warlord
Age of Resistance - Supreme Leader Snoke
Tales from a Galaxy Far, Far Away: Aliens: Volume I
The Crimson Corsair and the Lost Treasure of Count Dooku
Tales from a Galaxy Far, Far Away: Aliens: Volume I
Choose Your Destiny: A Scavenger Mission
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: A Junior Novel
Join the Resistance: Attack on Starkiller Base
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: A Junior Novel
Flight of the Falcon, Part 2: The Planet of Misfit Droids
Tales from Wild Space: Mattis Makes a Stand
Tales from Wild Space: The Blue Brothers
R2-D2, BB-8 and Rey's Lightsaber on the Loose!
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel
Star Wars Epic Yarns: The Empire Strikes Back
Star Wars Epic Yarns: Return of the Jedi
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
"Rising Malevolence" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Shadow of Malevolence" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Destroy Malevolence" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Downfall of a Droid" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Duel of the Droids" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Cloak of Darkness" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Lair of Grievous" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Dooku Captured" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"The Gungan General" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Jedi Crash" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Defenders of Peace" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Innocents of Ryloth" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Liberty on Ryloth" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Hostage Crisis" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Senate Spy" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Weapons Factory" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Missing in Action" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
Meet the Inquisitor, the Empire's Jedi Hunter | Star Wars Rebels
Helmets: Darth Vader, Master of the Dark Side
Highlights of the Saga: Duel in Cloud City
Cowboy Jedi: Freddie Prinze Jr. is Kanan Jarrus
Star Wars Rebels: Beware the Inquisitor!
Databank A-Z: Hydroid Medusas–Imperial Academies
Highlights of the Saga: Intrigue on Utapau
Highlights of the Saga: The Secret of Kamino
Highlights of the Saga: Palpatine Unmasked
Databank A-Z: E-11 Blaster–Cornelius Evazan
Highlights of the Saga: The Fall of the Jedi
Highlights of the Saga: Battle on Geonosis
Weapons & Uniforms: Jabba's Skiff Guards
Weapons & Uniforms: The Supreme Chancellor of the Galactic Republic
Highlights of the Saga: Duel to the Death
Weapons & Uniforms: Terror of the IG-100s
Highlights of the Saga: Anakin's Tragedy
Databank A-Z: Imperial Future Council–Inquisitorius
Databank A-Z: InterGalactic Banking Clan–Jakku
Databank A-Z: Queen Jamillia–Jedi Temples
Highlights of the Saga: The Betrayal of Captain Argyus
Databank A-Z: Kyber Crystals–Laser Cannons
Highlights of the Saga: Escape from Utapau
Highlights of the Saga: The Unlikely Heroes
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: New Adventures
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
Databank A-Z: Davish Krail–Kuat Drive Yards
Highlights of the Saga: Attack of the Wampa
Highlights of the Saga: Ambush on Rugosa
Highlights of the Saga: Raid on the Jedi Temple
Highlights of the Saga: The Raid on Takodana
Much to Learn You Still Have: 7 Things You Might Not Know About Twi'leks
Weapons & Uniforms: Mos Eisley Spaceport Cantina
Highlights of the Saga: Joining Phoenix Squadron
Highlights of the Saga: Someone to Watch Over Me
Highlights of the Saga: Duel on Stygeon Prime
Much to Learn You Still Have: 8 Things You Might Not Know About Wookiees
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
Weapons & Uniforms: Heroes of the Resistance
Highlights of the Saga: Help from an Old Friend
Star Wars: Rogue One: The Ultimate Visual Guide
Highlights of the Saga: Finishing the Fight
Weapons & Uniforms: Veterans of the Clone Wars
Highlights of the Saga: The Second Battle of Geonosis
Weapons & Uniforms: The 41st Elite Corps
Building the Galaxy: Designing R2-D2, Part 2
Building the Galaxy: Filming R2-D2, Part 1
Building the Galaxy: The Weapon of a Jedi
Highlights of the Saga: Flight from Naboo
Highlights of the Saga: A Perilous Mission
Highlights of the Saga: Luke's Journey in the Force
Databank A-Z: Tractor Beams–Tri-Fighters
Star Wars Super Graphic: A Visual Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
Star Wars Forces of Destiny: Meet the Heroes
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, Updated and Expanded
Databank A-Z: Vibroblades–Cikatro Vizago
Forces of Destiny: Tales of Hope & Courage
Star Wars: Geektionary: The Galaxy from A - Z
Star Wars: The Last Jedi Activity Book with Stickers
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Heroes of the Galaxy
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Ultimate Sticker Collection
Behind the Cameras: Evolution of Stormtroopers
Star Wars Universe: Jedi vs. Sith: An Imbalance in the Force
Limited Edition Darth Vader Commander Expansion
Limited Edition Luke Skywalker Commander Expansions
Limited Edition Darth Vader Commander Expansion
Limited Edition Luke Skywalker Commander Expansion
Limited Edition Obi-Wan Kenobi Commander Expansions
Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles
Star Wars Lightsabers: A Guide to Weapons of the Force
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Starfighter Aces: Jango Fett — Legendary Bounty Hunter
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia, New Edition
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Galactic Guide
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
The Art of Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker
"Old Friends Not Forgotten" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"The Phantom Apprentice" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Victory and Death" Episode Guide - The Clone Wars
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
Season 1 Recap | The Mandalorian | Disney+
"Redemption" Episode Guide | The Mandalorian
The Battle of Hoth and the Second Death Star
The Final Order and the Battle of Exegol
Jedi Knight Vernestra Rwoh: Characters of Star Wars the High Republic
Avar Kriss | Characters of Star Wars: The High Republic
A Deep Dive Into Star Wars: The High Republic, Bringing A Younger Yoda to Life (in VR), and More!
Jedi Padawan Bell Zettifar | Characters of Star Wars the High Republic
Star Wars: The Mandalorian - The Art & Imagery Collector's Edition, Volume Two
"Aftermath" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
New High Republic Comic Revealed, Lightsabers from the Prime of the Jedi, and More!
Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy
Under the Helmet: The Legacy of Boba Fett
: 5 Highlights from "Chapter 2: The Tribes of Tatooine"
Big Empire | The Book of Boba Fett | Disney+
Cargo Hold: "Chapter 5: Return of the Mandalorian"
: 5 Highlights from "Chapter 5: Return of the Mandalorian"
Stranger | The Book of Boba Fett | Disney+
Cargo Hold: "Chapter 6: From the Desert Comes a Stranger"
: 5 Highlights from "Chapter 6: From the Desert Comes a Stranger"
Obi-Wan Kenobi | Teaser Trailer | Disney+
Obi-Wan Kenobi | Official Trailer | Disney+
at 20 | Concept Artist Roel Robles on the Design Origins of Count Dooku's Unique Lightsaber Hilt
at 20 | Hayden Christensen Looks Back at His First Steps as Anakin Skywalker
at 20 | Rob Coleman on Bringing Yoda, Dexter Jettster, and More to Digital Life
at 20 | Costume Designer Trisha Biggar Reflects on Her Most Challenging Film
A Series of Firsts | Obi-Wan Kenobi | Disney+
Obi-101: Everything You Need to Know About Obi-Wan Kenobi
10 of Obi-Wan Kenobi's Greatest Moments (So Far)
Obi-Wan Wednesdays: Reva Figure Revealed and More!
Star Wars Jedi: Survivor – Official Teaser
Star Wars: The High Republic For Light and Life Panel | Star Wars Celebration Anaheim 2022
SWCA 2022: 20 Highlights from Lucasfilm's Studio Showcase
SWCA 2022: 6 Things We Learned From the Lucasfilm Publishing Fiction Panel
SWCA 2022: Fans React to Lucasfilm's Studio Showcase
SWCA 2022: Respawn's Stig Asmussen Talks
and Reflects on Its Predecessor – Exclusive
SWCA 2022: 10 Things We Learned From the
Star Wars: Attack of the Clones 20th Anniversary Celebration | Star Wars Celebration Anaheim 2022
SWCA 2022: 5 Product Reveals We Love from the
Star Wars: The Bad Batch | Season 2 Teaser Trailer | Disney+
SWCA 2022: 8 Things We Learned from the Marvel
Obi-Wan Wednesdays: Find Ben Kenobi at Tibidon Station and More!
The Story Behind Lucasfilm and Volkswagen's Fantastic
Obi-Wan and Qui-Gon Step Inside Darkness in Marvel's
The Story of the Ronin Continues and More from Marvel's September 2022
Obi-Wan Wednesdays: The Purge Trooper Joins Hasbro's Black Series and More!
The Obi-Wan Cast Chat About Obi-Wan, Reva's Intentions Are Revealed, and More!
Obi-Wan Wednesdays: Make a Deal with Hasbro's Teeka the Jawa from
Looking Back on the Series | Obi-Wan Kenobi | Disney+
You Can't Escape Poster Posse's Stunning
Obi-Wan Kenobi Props, LEGO Star Wars Summer Vacation, and More!
HasLab Looks to Bring Reva's Lightsaber to Our Galaxy
Inside the Lucasfilm Archive: Weapons of the Inquisitorius from the
Obi-Wan Kenobi Dark Side Props, Emmy Nominations, and More!
Explore Jedha of the High Republic Era and More from Marvel's October 2022
Comic Hits Shelves, Charles Soule Looks Back
Ben Kenobi Remembers the Clone Wars in Marvel's
Inside the Lucasfilm Archive: A Brewing Rebellion in the
Costumes Revealed at the Lucasfilm Pavilion
Tales and More Reveals from the Lucasfilm Publishing Panel
Saga Chronicles: Skywalker Sound's Danielle Dupre and Jon Borland on Their
Acolyte Casting News, San Diego Comic-Con, and More!
Star Wars: The Secrets of the Bounty Hunters
Star Wars: The High Republic: Chronicles of the Jedi
(Card: General Obi-Wan Kenobi (Order Card))
Master & Apprentice: A Special Look at Ahsoka
Star Wars: The High Republic Character Encyclopedia
Tales of the Empire | Official Trailer | Disney+
Star Wars Bestiary, Vol. 1: Creatures of the Galaxy
Star Wars: The High Republic: The Lightsaber Collection
Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy
Star Wars: The Acolyte: The Visual Guide
The Art of Star Wars: The High Republic: Volume II
AT-AT Walker (All Terrain Armored Transport)
LEGO Star Wars Summer Vacation | Official Trailer | Disney+
Strap in Starfighter, Star Wars is Taking Over in Fortnite: GALACTIC BATTLE!
Star Wars Lightsabers: A Guide to Weapons of the Force
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Inside Secrets of the Empire with David S. Goyer, the New runDisney Dark Side Medals, and More!
Part Eight: The Jedi, the Witch, and the Warlord
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
Although six generalized styles (four for the Jedi and two for the Sith) are identified in
uses lightsaber parts from all six, Savi's condensed them into three styles (two for the Jedi and one for the Sith). Duty and Resolve was merged into Peace and Justice; Valor and Wisdom was merged into Elemental Nature; Passion and Strength was merged into Power and Control. The Protection and Defense style does not appear in
on Savi's Workshop in Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia: Updated and Expanded
STAR WARS: THE FORCE AWAKENS VFX Reel With New Full Scenes (2015) Oscars (720p FULL HD)
Why Luke's Lightsaber is Green in Return of the Jedi
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel
Dave Filoni Confirms Orange Lightsabers in Ahsoka
Empire of Dreams: The Story of the Star Wars Trilogy
at 20 | Rob Coleman on Bringing Yoda, Dexter Jettster, and More to Digital Life