This article has multiple issues and is in need of major additions and/or work.
It is requested that this article, or a section of this article, be expanded. ({{
This article has an excess of redlinks in it. ({{
Parts of this article have been identified as no longer being up to date. ({{
}}) The article needs to be updated with
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Star Wars Vol. 3: War of the Bounty Hunters
Star Wars: Poe Dameron Book VII: The Awakening
Star Wars: Episode IX The Rise of Skywalker
YT-1300 Millennium Falcon Owners' Workshop Manual
Star Wars: Millennium Falcon: A 3D Owner's Guide
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars Bestiary, Vol. 1: Creatures of the Galaxy
Please help Wookieepedia by editing this article. Once you have fixed an issue, you may remove it from the list of issues. See this article's
There are two conflicting sources for this article:
has not established a cohesive timeline regarding this subject. Editor discretion is advised.
Nordoxicon-38 deflector shield projector
29L electromagnetic countermeasures package
"It's the ship that made the Kessel Run in less than twelve parsecs. I've outrun Imperial starships. Not the local bulk cruisers, mind you, I'm talking about the big Corellian ships now. She's fast enough for you, old man.
, and registered or known under various aliases and pseudonyms including
. Earning a legendary status under their ownership, the ship was most famously used by the
s time in the possession of the smuggler
, it accumulated numerous modifications in the name of convenience and luxury, including painted exterior paneling and a large
. However, during Han Solo's famous record-breaking
, in which he piloted the freighter for the first time, many of these additions were destroyed or lost, leaving the ship battered by the time Solo won it from Calrissian shortly afterwards in a game of
. Its aged appearance still belied numerous advanced modifications to boost the ship's speed, weapons, and
. It also included sensor-proof smuggling compartments, which were used during the
saw further action when Solo chose to join the
, where it was able to sneak up and fire on
DS-2 Death Star II Mobile Battle Station
and aided in its destruction from within. Over the next three decades, the ship fell out of Solo's hands and was stolen by a succession of criminals and thieves, ending up in the ownership of the trader
, a remote world in the western half of the galaxy. The
. Shortly thereafter, it was reunited with Solo and Chewbacca.
became a Resistance vessel piloted by its new owner, Rey, throughout much of the
, the ship was once again captained by Calrissian during the
, which saw a decisive victory for the Resistance and
, before being returned to Rey, who had been newly dubbed a
actually appears to be in good working order.
Its basic shape was defined by two convex saucers welded together, a pair of front-facing mandibles and an outrigger-style, side-mounted
. Apart from the shape of its chassis, the
retained very little of its off-the-dock instrumentation. Because its successive owners either upgraded or downgraded every system according to their personal specifications, the freighter ended up becoming a unique
These customizations, however, came at the price of reliability, and the
was known to suffer frequent breakdowns in the heat of battle. After the circular military-grade
, the dish was replaced with the base rectangular model which was originally supplied with the ship. During the
again lost its rectenna, and it was replaced with a military-grade rectenna similar to that of the one lost during the Battle of Endor. Additionally, the
for the amusement of passengers and crew.
were heavily modified through the addition of a
overdrive that rerouted energy for acceleration bursts. As a result, the ship could fly at a maximum speed of 1,200
of the YT-1300 series was replaced with a
Although the regular SSP05 was a Class 1 hyperdrive, the one that equipped the
s hyperdrive failed 1.22 times more than the one on the
In addition to its renowned hyperdrive, which supposedly made the
the "fastest ship in the galaxy," the ship was equipped with a backup hyperdrive. It was much slower than the primary engine and often took several weeks or months to reach the nearest star system.
Whoa, two ST2 launchers? What the hell were you and Solo doing with my ship that made you install that much firepower?
s forward mandibles housed the forward deflector shields, concussion missile launchers, and beam lamps.
was normally suited for a much larger warship.
(one ventral and one dorsal) with enhanced
feeds, which gave them maximum range and damage. These served as its primary defensive armament, able to destroy enemy fighters with a single direct hit. Between the forward mandibles, there were two
mounted near the ventral boarding ramp allowed its crew to defend the ship against infantry and other light targets while on the ground.
: the bow was protected from both lasers and
s combination of sublight speed and maneuverability was comparable to most of the
and Empire, while its shielding, hyperdrive, heavy armor and weapons were on par with those typically found on capital ships. These traits made it an ideal choice for
Lando Calrissian's attack run within the bowels of the
. While agile and almost near impervious to almost all heavy weapons and turbolasers as any large warship, the
s only real combat weakness was its sheer size in comparison to starfighters. Although the ship had squeezed through many narrow spots in its history, it still lost the oversized
while trying to get through a particularly tight section of the
's superstructure and a few replacement ones in subsequent battles.
brain, but was overlaid with data architecture from an espionage droid, protocol droid processors, and custom state-of-the-art coding.
, which flooded illumination outside the ship, were mounted on the tips of the front mandibles.
In case of emergency landing or crash on
which could dissipate static charge on the ship, but when the dissipator burned out, the
If you refuse, you die. He dies. The others on the ship, they all die. If you join with us, we all can live. The choice is simple.
We couldn't have joined without you consenting to it. You made your decision a while ago. You just couldn't admit it. We are something different, now. Not just the
designated unit YT 492727ZED was built at
As was intended, the ship began its career as an intermodal tug pushing container in
indicate that the YT 492727ZED changed ownership more than once via unregistered transactions.
. The YT 492727ZED was registered by the Republic Group on the planet
. At some point, either prior or during its ownership under the Republic Group, a military-grade rectenna was installed on the
. Shortly after the end of the Clone Wars, the
was involved in a collision with a bulk freighter and was seriously damaged. The wreckage was reconditioned by a
, who used several sections and modules from a scrapped YT-1300p freighter to repair the ship.
The ship had a number of owners over its service.
named Lando Calrissian won the YT 492727ZED in a game of
, and registered the freighter under the name
Calrissian modified the freighter, inside and out,
converting it into his own speedy sports vessel as Calrissian saw how powerful its freight-pushing engines were. As such, Calrissian modified the two cargo mandibles at the front into an auxiliary ship launch, thus turning the plain freighter into a unique starship.
Lando Calrissian made significant modifications and named the vessel
were left in command of the ship. During the escape from Kessel, Calrissian uploaded L3 to the
. During the Kessel run the ship was majorly damaged by
, with one blasting a hole in the front of the
. After destroying the fighters, Han slid the
over an asteroid which destroyed two of the
, Han launched the escape pod. The ship also lost its
upon being caught in the Maw. Calrissian later took the heavily damaged ship after landing on
and he regularly claimed it was the fastest ship in
While most who saw the ship declared it looked like "junk," Solo and Chewbacca both prided themselves on the
, considering it the epitome of classic design.
You came in that thing? You're braver than I thought.
smuggling operation was changed when it was chartered by
. When challenged by Kenobi about his ship's speed, Solo bragged that the
, and that it had completed the infamous Kessel Run in fewer than twelve parsecs.
The journey to Alderaan proved to be much more than a simple passenger flight. The
attacked the ship in an attempt to recover its cargo. It also narrowly avoided capture by a couple of
Having also been on Tatooine, the Tonnika sisters had hoped to steal the
began its escape, it created a big enough distraction that the siblings realized they had the chance to steal any other nearby ship,
while seeing the freighter escape the Empire's grasp convinced stormtrooper
stranded in what appeared to be empty space, the
. Thanks to quick thinking by those aboard the
, the ship was made to appear as if the crew had escaped soon after taking off from
. It was searched by stormtroopers and it was reported that there were no passengers on board and the
had been jettisoned. Their search had missed the crew, who were hidden in a series of secret
before they could be detected by the scanner.
escapes from the soon-to-explode Death Star after helping Luke Skywalker make his final shot.
on board. After a fleeing battle with Imperial fighters and a trip through hyperspace, the ship arrived at the secret
, which it used to pursue Organa to this location. As the Rebels scrambled to organize a preemptive
on the massive Death Star, Solo loaded his reward on board the
. However, thanks to Chewbacca, its smuggler
. Solo and his ship returned just in time to cover Skywalker in his last-ditch effort to destroy the station and secure the safety of the Rebel Alliance. The ship's surprise attack destroyed
and sent Vader himself spinning off into space, allowing Skywalker to successfully complete his attack and destroy the Death Star.
It is requested that this article section
Please improve it in any way that you see fit, and remove this notice once the article section is more complete.
was subsequently featured in footage of the Battle of Yavin and the Death Star's destruction leaked to the
by the Alliance, catching the attention of Calrissian when he saw the footage.
became a symbol of the rebel cause as it flew against the Empire, becoming a bane to the regime. Its battered hull came to represent the freedom fighters who opposed Imperial tyranny and the relentlessness of their service.
WED 15 "Septoid 2" Treadwell toolkit droid
who was in service of the ship at the time. As the Alliance scrambled to escape the base, Solo and Chewbacca hurried to make the ship spaceworthy. Organa was cut off from her
-in and was forced to make her escape from Hoth on board the
. Solo used the ship's uncanny maneuverability and his
chasing them, and two more emerging from hyperspace. Solo's maneuvers in the
caused the two Star Destroyers approaching and the one pursuing to nearly collide with each other. The
then attempted to make the jump into lightspeed, but was stopped short by an equipment malfunction.
Forced to take drastic measures to avoid capture, Solo made the decision to pilot the
in an attempt to lose the Imperial pursuers. However, his repairs were cut short as he had unknowingly landed inside an
. Escaping just in time as the beast's huge mouth was closing, the
. They attempted to jump to lightspeed, but once again, the hyperdrive was not fully repaired. Solo then had Chewbacca change course and fly directly at
s bridge in an apparent suicidal attack run. The ship disappeared from sight and became undetectable to
. It had not gone far: Solo had attached the
to a blind spot on the conning tower of the Star Destroyer. Adhering to standard Imperial procedure, the Star Destroyers of
ejected all scrap and garbage before entering hyperspace. Solo then signaled Chewbacca to release the ship's landing claws, allowing the
to "float away with the rest of the garbage."
, however, saw through this ruse, and waited behind in
After its close encounter with the Empire, the
, where Solo's old acquaintance Calrissian held the position of
. The Empire had arrived first, however, due to Fett tailing the
. Treadwell was destroyed by Imperial forces to prevent him from warning the remaining crew that the recently-repaired hyperdrive had been disabled by Vader's men. The remaining members of the crew, joined by Calrissian,
. After rescuing Skywalker, who was dangling from a
on the underside of Cloud City, the ship left the
and attempted to jump to lightspeed, and only a last-
from falling into Imperial hands. Thanks to R2's efforts, the hyperdrive was activated and the
But this isn't your ship. With Han gone, I'm commandeering it for the Rebel fleet, which means you don't get a say in where it goes.
After the events on Cloud City, Organa, Skywalker, Calrissian, Chewbacca, C-3PO, and R2-D2 all were in the
although Skywalker sat thinking about what had happened, as he learned that Vader was actually his father. Chewbacca and Calrissian were discussing Solo, with the latter questioning what they would have done if the
, noting that firing Fett's ship out of the sky would have killed Solo. Calrissian also spoke to Organa and told her that they missed their chance to catch Fett because she made them get Skywalker, whom Organa introduced as the man who destroyed the Death Star. Calrissian promised that they would rescue Solo, as both he and Chewbacca understood Fett was taking their friend to Jabba. When Skywalker joined the conversation and asked where Solo was, Organa told him about what happened and promised that they would find him. After she asked what had happened to him, Skywalker only told her that Kenobi had not answered his call.
makes an attack run against the light cruiser
Organa had R2-D2 give Chewbacca coordinates for the Rebel fleet, and, with Solo gone and Calrissian not being the ship's owner, she commandeered the
for the Alliance. However, when they arrived at
batteries to target the freighter. Aboard the ship, Organa and Skywalker, despite his missing hand, moved to the gunning stations, while Chewbacca and Calrissian served as the pilots. Skywalker, however, began to be distracted by thinking about Kenobi and Vader, but he then used the Force on the TIEs, ripping the controls from the pilots' hands, allowing them to deviate from their course and collide with each other, giving Organa a chance to blast them. Calrissian and Chewbacca then made their attack run on an
, destroyed the ship's gun emplacements, making an opening for the Rebels to escape to
After the battle, Zahra explained to Vader that the
had disrupted their attack. She told the
that they attempted to destroy the vessel, but Vader informed her that the
was off-limits. He permitted her to kill Organa if she was able to, as he had no use for her, but Vader explained to her that there was someone else who was often aboard the
. He warned Zahra that if this individual, who was secretly his son Skywalker, was killed, there would be significant consequences.
, Organa, Skywalker, and Calrissian continued to use the
rendezvoused with the Alliance Fleet and prepared to assault the newest Death Star.
Look, I want you to take her. I mean it, take her! You need all the help you can get; she's the fastest ship in the fleet!
leads the starfighter attack during the Battle of Endor.
During the Battle of Endor, Calrissian and
protecting the second Death Star was brought down by Solo's strike team, the
and several Alliance fighters entered the battle station through a conduit port and sped toward the
core. Space was limited in the conduit tunnels leading to the core, and the relatively large
dish when the ship clipped a conduit in the tunnel. Calrissian was able to pilot the craft into the energy core housing the main reactor, fired upon the reactor prompting its collapse, and headed for the exhaust port. The
barely outran the massive explosion that destroyed the powerful battle station. Soon afterwards, the Imperial fleet retreated, and the galaxy celebrated the death of
Several months later, Solo and Chewbacca traveled through space on the
that the Empire had reduced their presence on the Wookiee
to rally smugglers and Wookiee exiles for a
sensor dish with a rectangular civilian model.
However, this information turned out to be a trap set by the Empire. Chewie was captured, but Solo managed to escape on the
came under attack, and communication was lost with Organa. In response, Organa dispatched the New Republic
to rescue her husband. Norra was joined by her son,
. They bluffed their way through the Imperial
, an automated prison on the far side of Kashyyyk. There, they managed to free Chewbacca and a hundred other prisoners including Norra's husband
. Norra, Temmin, and the prisoners except Chewbacca then used the
After learning that the Wookiee uprising was underway and that the Empire was
into the Kashyyyk system to aid her husband and Chewie. Later, she contacted the New Republic Captain
During the brief space skirmish, Organa and Verlaine flew circles around the Imperial Star Destroyers. After the Imperials capitulated, Organa landed the
, which her husband had captured. Organa used the ship's
to blast several stormtroopers who were still putting up a fight. After reuniting with her husband, Organa and Solo took the
to Kashyyyk. There, they parted company with Chewbacca before returning to Chandrila.
, Temmin tried to convince Solo to lend him the
. After some haggling, Solo and Organa relented. Temmin and Velus attempted to depart on the
, but were prevented from leaving Chandrila by
. While Temmin and Velus initially believed that Solo had double-crossed them, they later learnt that
fends off TIE Fighter fire during the Escape from Jakku
had become a legend in and of itself under Solo and Chewbacca.
to speak with Kanata. While the pair were conversing, a
offered to co-pilot for Solo after overhearing that Chewbacca was with his family and that Solo was short-handed for a job. After accepting Ducain's offer, he and Solo went to
—before finally ending up in the possession of
traveled to Jakku in his quest to learn about the
boarded the ship. Nuq Sin had a vision of Skywalker and Kenobi training aboard it after touching the remote.
In Plutt's possession, it would sit unused for years in Niima Outpost. Plutt paid for minimum maintenance for the ship with the intention of preparing it fully for flight only in the event that he would actually find a buyer.
You tell him Han Solo just stole back the
Han Solo and Chewbacca once again take ownership of the
on the outpost. While in spaceflight, the
was picked up by Solo and Chewbacca's sensors, and they promptly locked down the
s systems so they could recapture it using a freighter called the
they were then using for their smuggling operations, which they later abandoned after a cargo of
that were onboard escaped. Upon boarding their old vessel, Solo and Chewie went about inspecting their ship and found Rey and Finn hiding, whom they assumed were the
. When Rey and Finn explained that they were going to take BB-8 to the
that would reveal Skywalker's location, Solo and Chewie agreed to help them. Solo was impressed with how much Rey knew about the ship itself, and how it worked.
On the way to Maz Kanata's castle, when the
began to malfunction, the mechanically savvy Rey, who was sitting in the cockpit to the right of Solo, made a modification to the ship by simply bypassing a faulty
Blow that piece of junk out of the sky!!
. After learning of this, the Resistance devised a plan to sneak onto the surface and lower the planetary shields so their fighters could
, Solo, Chewbacca, and Finn infiltrated the base, lowered the shields, and reunited with Rey, who had been captured on Takodana by the First Order.
laid dormant, it was briefly spotted by members of the Resistance's
into the planet. At least two of its members speculated on whether it could be the
that they'd heard so many stories about, but at the time they could not confirm whether it was.
following the death of his own father, Han Solo, Chewbacca rescued Finn and Rey aboard the
, managing to escape the planet as it exploded. After learning of Skywalker's location, Rey, Artoo, and Chewbacca flew in the
, the remote planet where he had gone into self-
while Rey attempted to persuade Skywalker to join the Resistance, though Luke slipped aboard the old freighter to reminisce, and was reminded of what was at stake when Artoo replayed the hologram Leia Organa recorded to recruit Obi-Wan Kenobi on her
led the First Order TIEs away from Resistance forces.
Rey later departed the island, believing herself capable of restoring Ben Solo to the
using Snoke's escape vessel, and the YT-1300 participated in the
. Piloted by Chewie with the dorsal turret manned by Rey, the
led TIE fighters away from the Resistance
. The freighter lost its radar dish and its lower quad cannon during a chase through Crait's subterranean caverns. The
was later used to evacuate surviving Resistance personnel from the
while Luke Skywalker bought his allies time by confronting Kylo Ren.
After the battle, Rey spent a lot of time walking the corridors of the
, thinking about how much history it had.
Now, there are plenty of Corellian freighters in the galaxy. But only
has made the Kessel Run in twelve parsecs! Only
And only one was captained by the legendary Han Solo! That ship is the
became a bane to the First Order and a flying symbol of relentless resistance to tyranny.
and hired a temporary crew for the ship to take part in one of Ohnaka's endeavors.
Rey, Finn, BB-8, and Chewbacca were transporting the
when the ship started to experience problems. Rey believed that the engine coupling had a slight misalignment, but upon further investigation she discovered the static charge dissipator had completely burned out. She decided that the
would have to make an immediate pit stop on the planet
to look for a new dissipator with Faltus, while Finn and Chewie repaired the freighter.
dish, installed after it lost its rectangular one at the Battle of Crait, and a new lower quad laser cannon. Following
arrived at the Sinta Glacier Colony to meet a Resistance informant, the
, ordering them to relay a message to Leia from a spy within the First Order. Several squadrons of
later arrived at the colony, preparing to destroy the
. As Finn prepared for the action and entered the gunner cockpit, Boolio jested that a worthy thanks for the information provided would be to win the war. Forced to travel into the depths of the colony by a wall of TIEs, the
destroyed a number of its pursuers before jumping to
through one of the colony's walls. The remaining fighters pursued the
through a number of systems, whose dangers the First Order pilots were unable to evade.
Dameron's boldness allowed him to outmaneuver the enemy, though his reckless trick-flying heavily damaged the
, causing multiple fires both within and outside of the ship. Upon returning to the
berated a fatigued Dameron for this, though he rebuffed her by noting that his favored droid
was in similarly poor condition due to her earlier training accident. Rey dismissed the pilot, quipping that he was a difficult man, before hugging Finn, who jokingly joined her in condemning his companion. Although Rey was further angered by the revelation that Dameron lightspeed skipped with the
, a maneuver that the aging freighter could not support, Dameron admitted the true cause of his concern: Rey was "the best fighter [the Resistance had]," but she had spent her time training and furthering her knowledge of the Force rather than participating in the war against the First Order.
After learning that Darth Sidious had returned, and that the
, was on Exegol, Rey learned from Luke Skywalker's notes that a
could lead them there. Leia revealed that an ally on Pasaana may be able to help. Rey, Finn, Poe, Chewbacca, BB-8, and C-3PO departed in the
; attempting to save Chewbacca, Rey accidentally destroyed a First Order transport with Force lightning. Presuming that Chewbacca has been killed, the group escaped on
was later carried by a group of TIE fighters to the
Poe suggested traveling to the planet Kijimi to have the Sith text extracted from C-3PO's memory. Although the process would wipe the droid's memory, the coordinates to the
later arrived on Kijimi, with Rey sensing that Chewbacca was, in fact, still alive and that the
was onboard the Star Destroyer. The group then mounted a rescue mission.
to get more clues, the group later rescued Chewbacca, but managed to get themselves captured. General Hux was then revealed to be the First Order spy, having leaked information to the Resistance in order to bring about the downfall of Kylo Ren's rule.
with Rey, in which he revealed that she was Sidious' granddaughter, with her father being the son of the Emperor. Kylo once again asked Rey to join him, but she refused and escaped in the
Having discerned the location of the Sith wayfinder, the group traveled to
. Kylo Ren later arrived on Kef Bir, destroyed the
and dueled with the scavenger. Dying, Leia called to Kylo through the Force, distracting him long enough for Rey to seize the opportunity to impale him with
. Sensing Leia's death and feeling pity for the injured Ren, Rey healed the conflicted
and eventually took his ship in order to exile herself on
The group, save for Rey, returned to base. The Resistance then followed Rey's coordinates to Exegol, as she traveled to confront her destiny and Sidious, at the behest of the
there. Lando and Chewbacca sought to gather allies of the Resistance for the
lead the Citizens' Fleet into the Sith Eternal's fleet, the Final Order.
comprised of many Resistance ships from systems all across the galaxy, against the extensive
of the Sith Eternal. Finn and the Kef Bir native
, the command ship of the battle. They successfully destroyed the command bridge and prevented the Sith fleet from leaving Exegol. As the
promptly rescued Finn and Jannah. The Resistance then destroyed the remaining Sith forces.
With the Final Order fleet destroyed by the combined forces of the Exegol strike team and the galaxy fleet, Rey and the Resistance emerged victorious and left Exegol to return to Ajan Kloss. Rey, accompanied by BB-8, later took the
beneath the sands of the homestead, having built
. In the scenes with Lando Calrissian and Nien Nunb in the
, the set of the ship was rocked to stimulate the
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: Incredible Cross-Sections
, and the ship did indeed make a cameo in the movie. At the beginning of one shot closing in on a docking bay on
, a YT-1300 freighter is seen flying in to dock.
and not just another ship of the same class.
, although they were redressed. These sets were augmented with the addition of extra sets depicting Lando Calrissian's quarters and cape closet.
inside the set of the Ship. And he quips of never getting tired of using the hyperdrive.
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: Incredible Cross-Sections
intended for the book to include information about the freighter series being able to act as a cargo pusher, but was unable to get the image in time.
YT-1300 Millennium Falcon Owners' Workshop Manual
had only three landing gear legs, but five landing gear legs in
had five landing gear legs, but two were lost during the Kessel Run.
Solo: A Star Wars Story: Expanded Edition
Choose Your Destiny: A Han & Chewie Adventure
The Mighty Chewbacca in the Forest of Fear!
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
A New Hope: The Princess, the Scoundrel, and the Farm Boy
The Adventures of Luke Skywalker, Jedi Knight
Star Wars: The Original Trilogy – A Graphic Novel
Chewie vs. Holochess - Let the Wookiee Win
Han Solo – Taking Flight for his Friends
Luke vs. the Death Star - X-wing Assault
Smuggler's Run: A Han Solo & Chewbacca Adventure
Galactic Adventures Storybook Collection
Galactic Adventures Storybook Collection
The Weapon of a Jedi: A Luke Skywalker Adventure
Star Wars Adventures: The Weapon of a Jedi
Choose Your Destiny: A Luke & Leia Adventure
The Empire Strikes Back: So You Want to Be a Jedi?
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Tales of Villainy: Invasion of Echo Base
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Han Solo vs. the Space Slug - The Escape Artist
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Amara Kel's Rules for TIE Pilot Survival (Probably)
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Moving Target: A Princess Leia Adventure
Return of the Jedi: Beware the Power of the Dark Side!
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Tales from a Galaxy Far, Far Away: Aliens: Volume I
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: A Junior Novel
Join the Resistance: Attack on Starkiller Base
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: A Junior Novel
Flight of the Falcon, Part 2: The Planet of Misfit Droids
Flight of the Falcon, Part 3: Home Again
Flight of the Falcon, Part 4: Lady and the Tramp
Flight of the Falcon, Part 5: Grand Theft Falcon
Star Wars Adventures: Flight of the Falcon
Black Spire: Return to a Shattered Planet
Star Wars: Tales from the Galaxy's Edge – Last Call
Tales from Wild Space: The Flat Mountain of Yavin
R2-D2, BB-8 and Rey's Lightsaber on the Loose!
Helping Chewbacca Save The Millennium Falcon!
Who's Making That Noise in The Millennium Falcon?!
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel
R2-D2, BB-8 and Rey's Lightsaber on the Loose!
Helping Chewbacca Save The Millennium Falcon!
Who's Making That Noise in The Millennium Falcon?!
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition
Star Wars Epic Yarns: The Empire Strikes Back
Star Wars Epic Yarns: Return of the Jedi
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
From Trenches to Wrenches: The Roger Story
"Rising Malevolence" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Duel of the Droids" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Cloak of Darkness" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Innocents of Ryloth" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Children of the Force" Episode Guide - The Clone Wars
Highlights of the Saga: Duel in Cloud City
Highlights of the Saga: The Capture of Han Solo
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle of Yavin
Highlights of the Saga: Peril in the Asteroid Field
Highlights of the Saga: Ground Assault on Hoth
Databank A-Z: Hydroid Medusas–Imperial Academies
Weapons & Uniforms: Imperial Dignitaries
Princess Leia Organa - Rebel Leader (ESB)
Databank A-Z: E-11 Blaster–Cornelius Evazan
Highlights of the Saga: The Death of Jabba the Hutt
Databank A-Z: Saw Gerrera–Commander Gree
Highlights of the Saga: Assault on Endor
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Star Wars Master Models: Millennium Falcon
Highlights of the Saga: The Second Death Star
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: Incredible Cross-Sections
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: New Adventures
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
Databank A-Z: Petranaki Arena–Proton Torpedoes
Highlights of the Saga: Infiltrating Starkiller Base
Highlights of the Saga: The Raid on Takodana
Highlights of the Saga: Escaping Cloud City
Much to Learn You Still Have: 7 Things You Might Not Know About Twi'leks
Weapons & Uniforms: Inhabitants of Jakku
Highlights of the Saga: Assault on Starkiller Base
Weapons & Uniforms: First Order Fleet Personnel
Star Wars: Millennium Falcon Deluxe Book and Model Set
Star Wars: X-Wing Deluxe Book and Model Set
Weapons & Uniforms: D'Qar Resistance Base Personnel
Much to Learn You Still Have: 7 Things You Might Not Know About Sullustans
Highlights of the Saga: The Hunt for Luke Skywalker
Weapons & Uniforms: Heroes of the Resistance
Highlights of the Saga: Help from an Old Friend
Droid Directory: 3PO-series Protocol Droids, Part 1
Building the Galaxy: Filming R2-D2, Part 3
Droid Directory: LOM-series Protocol Droids
Building the Galaxy: The Weapon of a Jedi
Highlights of the Saga: Luke's Journey in the Force
Star Wars Super Graphic: A Visual Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
Star Wars Forces of Destiny: Meet the Heroes
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle for Jedha
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, Updated and Expanded
Forces of Destiny: Tales of Hope & Courage
Star Wars: Geektionary: The Galaxy from A - Z
Star Wars: A-wing Deluxe Book and 3D Wood Model
Star Wars: The Last Jedi Activity Book with Stickers
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Heroes of the Galaxy
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Incredible Cross-Sections
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Ultimate Sticker Collection
Behind the Cameras: How the Death Star Was Created
Behind the Cameras: Evolution of Stormtroopers
Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles
Star Wars Lightsabers: A Guide to Weapons of the Force
The Last Jedi: Rose Tico: Resistance Fighter
Solo: A Star Wars Story | Tour The Millennium Falcon with Donald Glover
Solo: A Star Wars Story The Official Guide
Creating a Starship Fleet: Ralph McQuarrie — The Man Who Drew
Starfighter Aces: Luke Skywalker — Savior of the Rebel Alliance
Solo: A Star Wars Story: Tales from Vandor
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Star Wars: Scum and Villainy: Case Files on the Galaxy's Most Notorious
YT-1300 Millennium Falcon Owners' Workshop Manual
Star Wars: Millennium Falcon: A 3D Owner's Guide
Resistance Sympathizer — Scavenged YT-1300
"The Core Problem" Episode Guide | Star Wars Resistance
Rebel Starfighters Owners' Workshop Manual
Star Wars: The Galactic Explorer's Guide
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Galactic Guide
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
Leia Organa — Modified YT-1300 Light Freighter
The Art of Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker
Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge: Traveler's Guide to Batuu
Every Ship in the Star Wars Sequel Trilogy
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
"The Mandalorian" Episode Guide | The Mandalorian
The Battle of Hoth and the Second Death Star
The Final Order and the Battle of Exegol
"Common Ground" Episode Guide - The Bad Batch
Tobias Beckett and Other Characters of the Underworld
Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy
Under the Helmet: The Legacy of Boba Fett
Star Wars Droids Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
A Series of Firsts | Obi-Wan Kenobi | Disney+
SWCA 2022: Boba Fett, Fennec Shand, and More
SWCA 2022: 5 Highlights from ILMxLAB's Making of
The Story of the Ronin Continues and More from Marvel's September 2022
Saga Chronicles: Skywalker Sound's Danielle Dupre and Jon Borland on Their
Star Wars Celebration Europe 2023 Announces First Celebrity Guests
"Entombed" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
Master & Apprentice: A Special Look at Ahsoka
Star Wars: Dawn of Rebellion: The Visual Guide
Collaboration with New Releases and More
Dispatch: Star Wars on Free Comic Book Day
at 25 | Ahmed Best on the Creation and Legacy of Jar Jar Binks
Amanda Lawrence: A Commanding Performance
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
D23 2024: All the Star Wars News from D23: The Ultimate Disney Fan Event
D23: The Ultimate Disney Fan Event Recap | Star Wars
Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge | Batuu at Night |Walt Disney World Resort
Meet the Cast and Creators Mixing Things Up with
LEGO Star Wars: Rebuild the Galaxy | Darth Jar Jar
LEGO Star Wars: Rebuild the Galaxy | Bobby Moynihan Builds the Dark Falcon
LEGO Star Wars: Rebuild the Galaxy | Millennium Falcon Landing | Now Available on Disney+
LEGO Star Wars: Rebuild the Galaxy | Choose Your Own Adventure (Gaten & Tony's Version) | Disney+
Behind the Bricks: Our Favorite Easter Eggs from
Meet the Cast and Creators Mixing Things Up with
Music By John Williams | Official Trailer | Disney+
Reads Picks For Every Type of Reader in Your Life
Star Wars Bestiary, Vol. 1: Creatures of the Galaxy
Star Wars: The High Republic: The Lightsaber Collection
Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy
Skeleton Crew | The Skeleton Crew Talks Star Wars | Streaming December 3 Disney+
: An Interview with Doug Chiang and Oliver Scholl
Star Wars Outlaws - Dev Update #5 - NEW HIGH SCORE
STAR WARS: HYPERSPACE STORIES RETURNS WITH AN ALL NEW POE DAMERON AND BB-8 ADVENTURE
Star Wars: Skeleton Crew | Bringing Mama Crab to Life: Behind the Scenes | Disney+
Celebration Japan 2025 Art Show - Reveal
Celebration Japan 2025: The Anime & Manga Pavilion Celebrates Collaboration
Wookiee Basketball, Kid Han Solo, and a Kenobi Dummy: 20 Fun Facts about
The High Republic Author Roundtable: "The End of the Beginning"
LEGO Star Wars: Rebuild the Galaxy - Pieces of the Past
Video Game Should You Play Right Now? - Updated
Video Games There's a Galaxy of Connection
Author Ian Failes Talks Writing the New Book 'Industrial Light & Magic: 50 Years of Innovation'
LEGO Star Wars Summer Vacation | Official Trailer | Disney+
"I Am Your Mother" Episode Guide | Star Wars Visions Volume 2
A Giant Chewbacca Joins the Fight in New
LEGO Star Wars: Rebuild the Galaxy - Pieces of the Past
Our Favorite Deep Cuts and Fun Facts from
LEGO Star Wars: Rebuild the Galaxy - Pieces of the Past
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: Incredible Cross-Sections
YT-1300 Millennium Falcon Owners' Workshop Manual
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
Solo: A Star Wars Story The Official Guide
Star Wars Super Graphic: A Visual Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Star Wars: Millennium Falcon Deluxe Book and Model Set
Smuggler's Run: A Han Solo & Chewbacca Adventure
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, Updated and Expanded
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Secrets of Spaceflight: Starship Transponders
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Solo: A Star Wars Story: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: Millennium Falcon: A 3D Owner's Guide
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
"Flight of the Falcon, Part 5: Grand Theft Falcon" takes place after the events of "
The Crimson Corsair and the Lost Treasure of Count Dooku
. "The Crimson Corsair and the Lost Treasure of Count Dooku" refers to the prologue as taking place 50
prior to the main story. The prologue takes place in between "
. Therefore the prologue takes place in 19
, and the main story takes place around 31 ABY. Therefore, "Flight of the Falcon, Part 5: Grand Theft Falcon" also takes place around 31 ABY.
Flight of the Falcon, Part 5: Grand Theft Falcon
Join the Resistance: Attack on Starkiller Base
Star Wars Adventures: Flight of the Falcon
Take a new tour of the Millennium Falcon: Smugglers Run ride
Much to Learn You Still Have: 7 Things You Might Not Know About Sullustans
Episode III Easter Egg Hunt: Ships Aplenty
A&A - The Official Jason Fry Discussion Thread
STAR WARS Micro Galaxy Squadron Millennium Falcon
Quiz: Which Droid Are You Taking on Your Next Adventure?
Object Would Make the Perfect Valentine's Day Gift?
Every Starfighter in Star Wars Explained By Lucasfilm