Parts of this article are no longer up to date. This article needs updating from multiple sources. Click the dropdown below to see the full list.
Star Wars: The Secrets of the Bounty Hunters
Star Wars: The Skywalker Saga: The Official Collector's Edition
The Star Wars Archives: Episodes I–III, 1999–2005
Star Wars: Galactic Atlas: Updated Edition
Please update the article to include missing information, and remove this template when finished.
I've only heard that name once. From Kanan. He said Mustafar is where Jedi go to die.
the energies of the Bright Star in an attempt to
the planet's core, transforming the lush world into an imbalanced
that cooperated to ensure their continued survival. Legends of Corvax's search for immortality brought the ancient
to Mustafar, seeking the same secrets of eternal life. There, they built a
for unique and valuable minerals. It was also home to the
to leadership of the organization. As part of the
during the Clone Wars, the Techno Union on Mustafar
on the planet where he intended to turn "
the council, effectively ending the Clone Wars. The
Vader, defeating him and leaving him to burn on a lava bank. However, Vader was saved when Sidious arrived and carried him offworld. Mustafar then came under the ownership of the
after the Techno Union and its assets were nationalized. Sidious had new facilities built on the planet, where more Force-sensitive infants were taken and transformed into agents of the
, Vader returned to the site of his greatest defeat and, with the help of the ancient Sith Lord
to serve as his personal sanctum, built on the
. Throughout the Age of the Empire, Vader used the planet to fulfill his master's biddings, with the fiery world becoming the final resting place for
. In addition, Vader also undertook personal business within his new realm, attempting to wield the dark powers of Mustafar to bring his deceased wife back from the dead.
Following the Dark Lord of the Sith, the Empire took hold of planet. Resource extraction efforts on Mustafar were taken over by the
, although strict Imperial travel restrictions on the
made it difficult for the guild to turn a profit and mining operations eventually ceased entirely. Black Sun also abandoned Mustafar for a more low profile world when the Empire established a
there. The Mustafarians resisted the Imperial occupation of their homeworld and attempted to drive them from Mustafar by launching
, Mustafar fell into obscurity following Vader's demise at the
, though Black Sun did eventually return to the planet. After the
of the Bright Star, the planet's ecosystem slowly began to heal from the devastation it had endured for
prior. Many devout pilgrims journeyed to the ruins of Fortress Vader, hoping to tap into the late Sith's dark power.
to the world to continue the legacy of his
that defended Fortress Vader and discovered his grandfather's
, a tool that allowed him to locate the phantom
A colony for mines and an outlaws' cove (c. 300–22 BBY)
Mustafar is a lava planet, terrible place, full of awful mines. There's a custom there to jump lava flows and…well, you'll see.
The landscape of Mustafar was harsh and filled with lava.
and a revolution around its sun every 412 local days, the equivalent of 618
and was a terrestrial world classed as a wasteland during the Imperial Era.
garden world that thrived with lifeforms that inhabited
interspersed with glens, molten rock plains,
Few areas were temperate enough to sustain life, and only a few landmasses were not fractured by tectonic disruption and magma flows; allowing lifeforms to evolve deep underground.
allotropes that surfaced from the planet core
as well as its obscurity to the wider galaxy, attracted various off-world interests that exploited the molten planet.
world until the destruction of the Bright Star, at which point the planet was allowed to regrow.
Such different states of the world led some to believe that spiritual forces were the catalysts to the changes in Mustafar's nature.
Despite the planet's rugged and dangerous nature, there was a deadly beauty to the volcanic landscapes.
Of all the fumes that drift up from the lava lakes deep underground, these were the most potent. They played tricks with your head…making you see things that weren't there. Shadows of the mind. Fears… doubts… ghosts of the past.
Deep underground, Mustafar contained lava lakes from which
drifted up to surface-level facilities; such
played tricks with the minds of organics who inhaled it, giving rise to what
referred to as "shadows of the mind"—visions of fears and doubts that could manifest as ghosts of the past. Lava fumes were most potent around the vicinity of the
, and sustained exposure to it drove an individual insane.
were thus installed at the Mining Complex to prevent such toxic fumes from rising to indoor facilities and being inhaled by those within.
, which it closely orbited, being constantly pulled by its
force; Mustafar was nearly captured by the larger world as its
, an event that was only prevented by the counterbalancing gravitational pull from the more remote gas giant
. Mustafar nevertheless possessed a standard gravity. The influence of the massive magnetic field of Mustafar's larger twin, however, resulted in its
volcanic landscape, as the power of Jestefad's gravitational force caused massive tidal disruption that heated Mustafar's interior.
Along with being engulfed in a constant gravimetric battle, Mustafar housed an unstable core that caused
powerful enough to split the planet's continents apart,
and its split tectonic plates allowed the planet's searing magma to push through to the surface, creating a volcanic hot spot visible as a bright red cluster from
Most stable areas of land were prone to erosion from the lava or abrupt reshaping due to the earthquakes.
While great portions of the planet were always in motion, one of the few constant features was the
. Lava poured out of the spot at nearly 100,000
and pooled at the giant volcano's base. To the north was a region named the
, which boasted heavy volcanic activity. Another region earned its nickname, the
was the largest lavafall in the galaxy, while
world's instability churned magma that carried
to exploit the mineral wealth of the otherwise untouched world.
Mining facilities were set up for minerals and metal ore,
The searing magma that bubbled beneath the surface flooded the planet, covering it in oceans
and rivers of lava. Geothermal energy was the main power source of the
and the lava flows that coated the rocky terrain left behind traces of
), Mustafar's lava, while still very hot, had a lower
than that found on other worlds due to unusual mineral allotropes that were molten at lower temperatures.
Nevertheless, patches of Mustafar began to cool in the
The electromagnetic interference in Mustafar's atmosphere posed a risk to travelers.
Mustafar's atmosphere was influenced by the breath of its volcanoes and Jestefad's massive magnetic field. Along with cyclonic-force updrafts and thermal currents, titanic lightning storms made up the planet's unfriendly skies. Turbulent and ash-laden,
the atmosphere was also hot and chemical,
consisting of thick clouds of black smoke
Lava processing operations created toxic gas by-products,
and a noxious air cast the world in a hazy fog.
Thus, Mustafar was classified as a world with a Type II atmosphere, wherein the usage of a
electromagnetic interference and lightning storms in the atmosphere respectively led to signal loss and noise, although the effects of Mustafar's hectic skies could be reduced through the use of dedicated dampers.
The planet's magnetic field interfered with
and electromagnetic interference also posed a significant risk for off-world arrivals and departures.
without the assistance of specially shielded surface-level landing equipment
's scanners rendered useless and navigational equipment and control systems interfered with.
as Mustafar was by Lefrani and Jestefad.
Ships were additionally threatened by Mustafar's intense heat and incendiary ash, although any damage could be prevented should a vessel be equipped with sufficiently powerful
The cavernous underground of Mustafar was home to ferocious creatures (darkghast pictured).
Despite the hellish environment after its devastation, Mustafar was teeming with life, a home to fragile but determined organisms all connected through
All surviving lifeforms had evolved deep underground, in the few areas that remained temperate and with landmasses were not fractured:
in the solid rock betwixt lava flows lived
lifeforms proved to be the most successful survivors, aggressive in nature and with tough skin or carapaces.
The extremophile creatures of the planet had adapted to Mustafar's desolation and become indomitable.
and were forced to live largely underground in Mustafar's north and near the equator.
Much like the planet itself, some of the creatures found on Mustafar were especially deadly.
Highly aggressive creatures posed a significant hazard on the planet due to its scarce resources.
, which lived deep in the nesting grounds of their tulrus prey.
that dwelled beneath the world's rocky surface.
hunted in packs and were capable of pursuing their prey for days.
hunted the planet's tunnels and lava tubes in search of xandanks,
. Despite the danger of roggwarts, they could be domesticated with the proper training
and were imported to Mustafar to work in the planet's mines.
the Disembowler was employed to keep the
Kongo was reputedly the last of his kind
although it may have been said in an effort to make the roggwart seem more mysterious and exotic.
conspire to thwart my vision. Fascinating. Utterly fascinating.
―Lord Momin, reacting to a lava flea attack on Fortress Vader
Northern Mustafarians ride lava fleas along a molten river.
had developed a tough exoskeleton that protected them from the world's fiery devastation.
feeding on the surface's rich minerals, rocks, and dirt and were commonly used as domesticated mounts by the sentient Mustafarians. Lava fleas and Mustafarians thus had a close connection and were the only species that thrived on Mustafar.
The large, lumbering egg-laying tulrus had sharp tusks and bad temper, while the small
parasite attached itself to a host and eventually burst out, killing the host and developing into a large adult.
occupied Mustafar's lava fields; these creatures were often scared away by what the Mustafarians referred to as "
also called Mustafar their home, the latter of which gnawed on the
native to the world was known for its painful bite, which left behind burning pustules not unlike the volcanos that painted the planet's surface.
were winged creatures that inhabited the planet's caverns in hives. Considered to be vermin, the creatures' insides were filled with lava, which they were able to spit out when provoked.
lived near lava flows and were fierce defenders of their nests;
, the creature developed a defense mechanism by the time it reached adulthood that allowed it to warn its brood by exploding.
inhabited Mustafar's labyrinthine caverns and tunnels. Those strong, hard-shelled creatures were hunted by the Mustafarians.
Irontrees were some of the few plants found on the world.
Although the lush vegetation that once covered the planet eventually disappeared beneath fire and ash,
life. Hidden away from the world's searing lava rivers,
grew underground. These organisms were deeply symbolic to the native Mustafarians and served as the inspiration for their
and life began to slowly creep back once again.
stood in the few places where fertile soil existed, including the fen.
Once, our world Mustafar was green, filled with life.
―The Priestess teaches Mustafar's past to the descendant of Lady Corvax
A battle (pictured) on the forest world of Mustafar claimed the life of Lord Corvax, prompting Lady Corvax to steal the Bright Star.
thriving with life through the Bright Star, the native Mustafarians' most sacred artifact that nourished
that drew attention from the Jedi's enemy, the
of skirmishes between the two groups, they came to a titanic battle in the Mustafar system that brought havoc to Jestefad, Lefrani, and Mustafar five thousand years before the Imperial Era.
Ancient legends said that offworlders led by
arrived at some point, living in harmony with the natives, but the garden world was
and Corvax's husband fell in battle against the invaders. Unable to let go of her love, Corvax stole the Mustafarians' Bright Star in her pursuit of
, having thought it had the power to resurrect her husband from
. Corvax created the Aeon Engine and encased the artifact within, although her actions ultimately resulted in the devastation of the planet;
energies ruptured from the Bright Star, pushing Mustafar out of its original orbit.
Other legends claimed that due to a cataclysmic struggle between the Sith and the Jedi, the orbit of
the gas giant Lefrani was also shifted, and Mustafar entered an unusual and gravitationally crushing alignment between
, the world's new, precarious orbit rendered it a volcanic wasteland
as both gas giants pulled on tiny Mustafar, heating its interior in their attempts to claim Mustafar as their moon.
The crust of the smaller world was also torn apart, allowing the flow of lava toward the planet surface.
Very few species survived the cataclysm,
with the homes of nearly all native species being destroyed. The remaining life-forms evolved
deep underground, in the few areas temperate and stable enough to support life,
and developed short, tough bodies to endure the superheated clime,
and the Mustafarians were forced to areas in Mustafar's north and near the equator. There, they adapted and evolved to the new realities of life on Mustafar.
These events passed into legend, attracting Sith who were looking for the secrets of eternal life. Eventually, a
at the site of Lady Corvax's underground
The Jedi had been forced to abandone their enclave on Mustafar following its devastation, and the world was used by a Force organization named the
. At some point, a Jedi and another individual fought a Sher Kar on Mustafar.
A colony for mines and an outlaws' cove (c. 300–22 BBY)
Mustafar's surface transformed into a hellish landscape.
, the Techno Union came to own the planet
due to its mining interests. Mustafar was a typical mining world of a Republic Era that was dominated by large-scale commerce and industry—volcanic, profitable, and dangerous. Although volcanic worlds like Mustafar were convenient for mining due to the naturally occurring furnace, but the savings could quickly be eaten up elsewhere.
The Techno Union built giant mining stations
across Mustafar, where much of the ore extraction was done through heavily automated electromagnetic processes, and they led to valuable elements congealing as scum on top of the lava.
Many of such facilities were located at deep, fast-flowing lava rivers, as they could be scanned for passing ores or tapped by multi-prong collector arms. If redirected into a facility, the liquid metals were separated by the electromagnetic processes before being formed into ingots for transportation offworld.
The corporation provided the Mustafarians with tools to mine mineral allotropes for them,
labor which served to pay the rent that the Union charged.
with workers of a great variety of other species, Mustafarian miners lived in simple residences at dedicated
mining towns, many of which were run-down. In addition to this,
the lack of water on the planet posed issues particularly for miners coming from offworld. Despite many of the miners being local, a fair amount came from other places in the galaxy and did not have the hardened nature to deal with the intense heat. The lack of water on the planet thus posed several issues, particularly for offworlders. Although water shortages were common,  it did not stop the miners from brewing their own
or were helped by Techno Union technology for transportation.
While Mustafar was similar to other mining planets in some ways, it also had unique qualities. Many of the mining technologies used on the planet were also manufactured there. Smart smugglers and independent spacers knew this fact. Part of the wealth of mining was shared by such individuals, who could make credits transporting workers or resources. Many of Mustafar's mining companies also used their own shipping companies. Visiting ship
needed to be aware of which outposts they visited, as some were not designed with offworlder's safety in mind.
While bigger installations manned by offworlders required extensive plant shielding, other, smaller ones rarely had these protections, as local Mustafarians often made use of individual lava flea armor instead. Modern mining facilities required plant shields, as even the strongest alloys and protective gear would not last long without them. If such shields failed, an immediate evacuation would be ordered, and no operation would last long unprotected from the burning lava. Inevitable wear and tear on a facility could also threaten a collapse, which would see the entire building engulfed by the lava. On the occasion of a volcanic eruption damaging a town, residents would likely be stranded if their ships were harmed, with no choice but to work as miners to earn enough to leave Mustafar.
The Trade Union supplied Mustafarians with technology such as the
to collect mineral-rich lava spewing from Mustafar's heated interior,
Minerals were transported across the galaxy to words such as
, where a shipment infested with Mustafarian ants found its way into the hands of
, Mustafarians became wary of technology that
failed under the intense heat of their world and which had an inadequate melting point, having been witness to mechanical breakdowns. Such was the case for
, including the heavy-duty UH-XH, which were generally left to be operated by
Nevertheless, by the Clone Wars' end, Mustafar had served as a literal gold mine for the Techno Union for almost three hundred standard years.
also established a presence on Mustafar through a base.
In addition to its mining activities, desperate offworlders and law-evaders who were undeterred by the world's harsh conditions were drawn to Mustafar as a result of the obscure world's sparse population.
Mustafar was also ideal for hiding or disposing items in secret.
romantically involved with the Jedi Padawan
discussed whether they should collect Mustafar fire diamonds, with Wick dreading the notion of doing so, before deciding to travel to the planet
I sense something, Master. And I don't like it.
It's the dark side, Ahsoka. This is the right place.
Mustafar was a haven for crime, home to the leadership of Black Sun (pictured).
During the Clone Wars, the Mustafarians aligned themselves with the
. However, they were not fanatically committed to the cause, having only joined to secure themselves Separatist contracts, and life continued much as it had before. With members of the
's guardians of peace and justice, focused on defeating the Separatists,
found itself in a declining state, especially in the infrequently patrolled Outer Rim. Organized crime thus flourished, such as the
establishing elusive holdings on Mustafar
and headquartering themselves in a well-defended
and found the surrounding lava useful for the disposal of evidence.
The native Mustafarians cared little for Black Sun, since most of their operations took place elsewhere in the galaxy.
Hidden away from prying eyes, the Techno Union also
behind their Mustafarian mining operations, situated within the same mountain as their Klegger Corp Mining Facility, at the time of the Clone Wars. By the time of the war, Darth Sidious was familiar with the existence of the Sith temple
Darth Sidious maintained a secret facility on Mustafar that was intended to train kidnapped Force-sensitive children.
Aside from skirmishes and lesser operations, fighting largely passed Mustafar by during the Clone Wars,
resulting in the planet retaining a reputation as a remote astronomical object that individuals usually only stopped on to
. Nevertheless, the planet bore witness to a
, Bane deposited the children at Sidious' secret
strong in the Force. The two children, the
, were to be prepared for a surgical procedure meant to enhance them, as Sidious aimed at having an army of Sith spies to counteract the Jedi. Upon reading through the captured
reasoned the world could be where Bane deposited the kidnapped children so she and her
the children. As the Jedi arrived at the facility, Darth Sidious ordered the
to destroy the installation so as to ensure the loss of any evidence of the plot. The
attempted to relocate the children, but Skywalker and Tano managed to rescue them as the facility sank into the lava lake below it.
to the Black Sun fortress with the intention of recruiting them to their newly founded criminal empire, the
, greeted them upon their arrival. With both Maul and Moj backed by large amounts of soldiers, the renegade Sith requested a meeting with the Black Sun's leaders, which Moj agreed to. The syndicate was headed by
After negotiations with the leaders went sour, Savage beheaded all of them with his
. Moj became Black Sun's new leader and agreed to join the Shadow Collective, providing them with
, and supplies. Shadow Collective forces then began to load all of the supplies the Black Sun had at their disposal onto ships.
Ah, yes, scenic Mustafar, because everyone looks good in red lighting. Become a bounty hunter, see the galaxy!
Quinlan Vos and Asajj Ventress were hired by the Pykes to conduct a rescue mission at Black Sun's headquarters.
was sent undercover as a bounty hunter to work alongside Dooku's former apprentice,
, who were kidnapped by Black Sun and brought to their base on Mustafar in order to bribe the
into joining Maul's Shadow Collective. The two traveled to Mustafar in Ventress' ship, the
, where they sought to gather information at the lone bar in the town, named
were held. They infiltrated the lava-surrounded Black Sun fortress and rescued the children, although they later discovered that their mother was held in
. After the pair freed Tezzka, Moj had mobilized his forces for departure from Mustafar to attack the Pykes on the planet
After you have killed all the Jedi in the Temple, go to the Mustafar system. Wipe out Viceroy Gunray and the other Separatist leaders. Once more the Sith will rule the galaxy, and we shall have peace…
―Darth Sidious to his new apprentice, Darth Vader
The Mustafarian mining complex that served as the Separatist Council's refuge at the war's end.
As the war's end drew nearer, Darth Sidious instructed the
to retreat to their facility on Mustafar, and they gathered at the Techno Union's Klegger Corp Mining Facility under the leadership of
. Soon afterward, the Jedi Anakin Skywalker made a
with Sidious, becoming his new Sith apprentice,
Vader; the Jedi-turned-Sith was desperately hoping to gain the power to save his lover and
, from dying. Darth Vader's first mission was to
, Vader arrived at the Separatist facility's war room and promptly slaughtered the Separatist Council and their guards, bathing in the power of the dark side. At his
command, Vader further transmitted the order to deactivate the
immediately, effectively ending the Clone Wars. At the same time, the Republic's
was ordered to kill all Jedi, and Darth Sidious took the opportunity to
with his aim to seize control of the galaxy.
Lefrani eclipses Mustafar's sun, just after Darth Vader's massacre of the Separatists.
A rumor spread over the fire plains of Mustafar that a Jedi Knight—a reputed protector of light, guardian of peace and life, and a hero of the Republic—had been spotted at the Mining Complex. The Mustafarian boy
hoped to exact his dream of meeting a Jedi, and so approached the fallen Anakin Skywalker.
the eclipse of Mustafar's sun by Lefrani at the complex's balcony, just as Vader's massacre of the Separatists eclipsed the light of the Force within him.
However, Kakan saw that the figure was not the Jedi he expected. The fallen Jedi's eyes radiated such anger and hate that Kakan was compelled to run away, escaping to the complex's foundry. Kakan found the miner Lellis, who operated the facility's repulsor vents, releasing fumes from the depths of Mustafar that gave one illusions when inhaled. The potent fumes overwhelmed Vader with his fears, and Kakan and Lellis took advantage of his distraction to escape. However, as fear took hold of the boy as well, the two Mustafarians fell into a lava lake, but they were saved by a burst of Force energy released by Darth Vader in a bout of anger.
―Darth Vader, to his former friend Obi-Wan Kenobi
Padmé Amidala had been rushing to Mustafar in the hope of saving her husband from falling further to the dark side. She arrived on the volcanic world shortly after the slaughter of the Separatist leaders, and Vader met her embrace at the Techno Union facility.
Her pleas fell on deaf ears, however, when Vader spotted his former
. In his anger, Vader incorrectly assumed that his lover had betrayed him for Kenobi and
her via the Force; Amidala thus realized that Anakin Skywalker had been consumed by his lust for power and was truly corrupted by the dark side.
Darth Vader then gave his old master and former friend an ultimatum: either he was with him or against him. Plagued by self-doubt and his inability to let go of his assumptions, Vader
, Vader bathed the remnants of his Jedi self in the dark side that echoed from Mustafar's Sith sanctum, and amid the chaos, the shields protecting the mining facility were shut down. Parts of the building as well as the
Forced to fight across the lava streams, Vader was fueled by hatred and, in his hubris, attacked without regard to his own limitations. He fell victim to Kenobi's
beside a lava river. As the Sith Lord lost himself to the dark side's corruption, his remaining limbs were severed and his entire body was incinerated by Mustafar's lava.
Do not underestimate how much you disappointed me on Mustafar. I saved you—but you showed how far off the mark you fell…
Darth Sidious rescues his apprentice after he was left for dead on Mustafar's sands by Kenobi.
was then taken by Kenobi, who left him to die on the sands
of the river bank. Kenobi then took Amidala to a
in order for her to give birth to her and Anakin Skywalker's children—the twins
. Although charred and broken, Vader was recovered by Sidious, and he was brought back to Coruscant to be rebuilt with
Despite his survival, the events of Mustafar haunted Darth Vader throughout the age of the Empire, affecting the Sith's performance as the Emperor's
Seldomly, stories circulated amongst Mustafarians of a great Jedi duel on their world, although no evidence was given for such tales.
Mustafarians nonetheless had knowledge of the former Jedi who slaughtered the Separatist leaders and nearly killed the boy Kakan and the miner Lellis, and whilst some thought that the fallen Jedi Knight was gone, others thought that he still remained in the mists of Mustafar. Years later, Lellis realized that Darth Vader was the very same fallen Jedi Knight, overshadowing his people since the rise of the Empire.
Over a year after the battle against his former friend on Mustafar, in
the memory of Darth Vader burning on the volcanic slopes of Mustafar resurfaced in Obi-Wan Kenobi's thoughts along with other past happenings. Despite the pain inflicted by the memories, Kenobi willed himself to let go of his traumatic past and focus on his present—his mission to watch over Luke, the son of Anakin Skywalker.
When you arrive on Mustafar, find the place where the dark side calls to you. Draw upon the energy there—combine its power with your own. Then… use it.
Vader bled his new kyber crystal until it shone crimson.
A short time after his loss to Kenobi, in 19 BBY,
Vader returned to Mustafar under instructions from Darth Sidious. Vader was to
a kyber crystal he had obtained from the Jedi Master
, who he killed, in order to gain a crimson
that contained the shrine erected by the ancient Sith
and poured all of his pain and anger into the crystal, making it sing a hymn of darkness. With this new
, Vader returned to Coruscant by his master's side, another step closer, Sidious believed, to becoming a true servant of darkness.
Although Sidious had lost his original facility during the Clone Wars,
he soon built additional installations on Mustafar where he continued to abduct Force-sensitive infants. Over time, he manipulated these children and molded them into new members of the
trained by Darth Vader and initially made up of former Jedi, including
, since soon after the Empire's founding.
at the end of the Clone Wars, and obtained a
from throughout the galaxy—it listed the names and locations of many Force-sensitives, including the individual
on Mustafar. Wary that the Emperor could replace him with another Force user, Vader murdered Nu and destroyed the memory crystal.
"Thrawn" came into contact with the Empire in 14 BBY,
having been attacked by a talented trio of
when he was studying at Coruscant's prestigious
that his assailants be transferred away. When a derisive Deenlark asked if they should be transferred to Mustafar as punishment, Thrawn suggested that the three train instead as
You created this design, in your last body. Tell me what it is.
The door to the dark side is locked. This is the key. Your beloved waits for you there, Vader. My fortress will tune the energies of the locus. It is your first step towards using the power of the dark side to pierce the veil of time, between life and death.
―Darth Vader and Momin, on the design of Fortress Vader
Darth Vader wields his new crimson blade against Mustafarians, who were less than welcoming of their new neighbor.
Fascinated by the power he tapped into in the Sith cave on Mustafar,
and associating the world with his rebirth and personal connection to the dark side,
Vader requested that the world be given to him by his master
believing that the planet held the key to seeing the deceased Padmé Amidala once again. Gifted with the late Amidala's
, Vader departed Coruscant for his new home. The Sith Lord entered the planet's violent atmosphere unshielded, causing severe damage to his vessel and casting a streak of fire across the smokey sky. His entry was witnessed by the Mustafarian
that the fireball was an omen of events to come.
in its dark walls, leaving the Emperor's architects,
, to draw up plans for a personal base Vader could inhabit. Brenne
the planet's terrain, believing that, although Vader was seemingly impossible to satisfy, she could manage to design a home suitable for the Dark Lord. Unbeknownst to the architects, the mask that Sidious had gifted Vader was
by Darth Momin's spirit; it took control of Roggo, using his body to kill Brenne and create its own designs for the base.
Vader confronted the spirit, killing its host body and demanding that it gives him answers. The spirit introduced itself as Momin and offered to help Vader construct a fortress that would harness the energies
of the dark side locus below the cave to open a door into the Force itself;
by Father Kkkt's scout party, Vader abducted the Mustafarian
flee. The two Sith Lords subsequently took command of a vast Imperial construction force on the Gahenn Plains and began their work on what would become
Vader would exercise control over the entire Mustafar system.
Around this time, the Inquisitorius' headquarters were moved from Coruscant to the moon
in the Mustafar system, keeping close to Vader and his planet.
tower was built to complement the castle on Mustafar using black stone from the world
I have been in contact with the other clanholds. We are not the only one affected—the entire planet screams at what the dark one is building on the Gahenn Plains.
Momin's imperfect designs caused chaos on Mustafar.
The construction of Vader's fortress was not a simple task. Over the course of eight attempts
with at least five separate designs, Momin struggled to find the perfect structure that could correctly channel the dark side. The energy Vader exerted while attempting to open a rift in the locus caused electromagnetic storms to rage across the planet, throwing the world's creatures into a frenzy and casting the Mustafarian people into disarray—the natives found that their "lifefires" barely burned. As an
managed to defend the site against small uprisings by the Mustafarians and lava fleas. Father Kkkt, realizing the danger Vader posed to his world, rallied the clanholds across Mustafar prepared to mount an
Upon the completion of Momin's ninth design
Vader was finally able to reach through the Force and open a
, but he was interrupted in his moment of triumph by Kkkt and his forces. With the Dark Lord distracted, Momin entered the portal and claimed his original body, betraying Vader.
Kkkt's army had initial success in pushing back
' garrison, attacking the Imperials, whom they outnumbered by ten to one, with surprise tactics. Vader, however, soon arrived on the front lines and rallied his
to double their efforts. Recognizing Vader as the Imperial leader, Kkkt led the Mustafarians in a powerful
, drowning the enemy forces in a vast flood of lava. With his army wiped out, Vader retreated into the fortress, summoning his own massive force of energy to destroy the Mustafarian attackers.
Vader enters the portal in the Sith cave.
Returning to the inner sanctum, Vader confronted Momin, who mocked the
Sith for his failures in service to the dark side. Using Momin's hubris against him, Vader crushed and killed the resurrected artist. With no one to stop him, he entered the portal,
encountering visions of his past and future, including his beloved wife, Padmé Amidala. Upon witnessing what her husband had become, however, the vision of Amidala ran from Vader, choosing to plunge into an abyss. A beam of light containing a figure that he did not know was his son then overwhelmed Vader.
Frustrated with the dark visions, Vader retreated and crushed the altar in the Sith cave, destroying the portal
and accepting that the truth he encountered was exactly what he needed.
The Dark Lord later returned Momin's mask to Sidious;
both master and apprentice frequented Mustafar, using it to focus their meditation on the power of the dark side of the Force.
world. A world with secrets that I have vowed to protect at all costs.
Black Sun departed Mustafar to a lower profile world after the Empire had established a garrison there.
The Techno Union similarly abandoned their operations, and their remaining resources were taken over by the Mining Guild, but they struggled to profit on Mustafar due to the strict travel restrictions imposed by the Empire.
and maintained secret facilities on Mustafar where survivors of the Jedi Purge were interrogated and
, although the lava planet remained publicly notable only for its mining operations.
Rumor had it that Darth Vader carried out these interrogations, torturing the Jedi for any useful information before their execution.
As the world remained under heavy Imperial guard, mining operations there eventually ceased.
maneuver that involved great speed and surprise, and which ensured at least one side of a
"end[ed] badly." L3-37 explained that the tactic was named such in reference to the eponymous lava world's fiery nature.
According to a tale, an Imperial officer was driven insane by Mustafar's lava fumes and became Vader's servant Vaneé.
Following Kkkt's failed attack and the completion of Fortress Vader
—according to a story told years later by the Mustafarian Lellis—Darth Vader sought candidates for a
who would attend to his needs, searching for
, and was tasked with handling an outbreak of insanity amongst Imperial
assigned to Fortress Vader. On Mustafar, the inspector found that the
had inhaled toxic fumes from the planet's depths that gave one illusions of fears and doubts, and he entered Vader's castle to speak with Darth Vader himself with the intention of resolving the matter. However, Vader, bathing in his
, instead forced the officer to inhale the fumes and confront his fears by holding him in place via the Force, refusing to let the human go. Face with the illusions caused by the Mustafarian fumes, the inspector denied their existence and began to laugh, laughing for days until he took advice from the voices by his head and became Vader's servant, named Vaneé.
the lava fumes leaking into Vader's castle were blocked off.
During the early days of Vader's reign over the planet, Vaneé witnessed the efforts of a second force of Mustafarians to push the Sith away from their homeworld. The group, led by
, desired vengeance for their slaughtered kin and
the fortress in a surprise attack. Surrounding Vaneé, Criakan and his forces intended to show no mercy to the Imperials, but were shown the same respect by Lord Vader, who cut them all down before they could burn down the castle.
Darth Vader fights Priestess Sssl's forces at Fortress Vader.
who could force her will upon others by subjecting them to a
. Sssl's forces soon overwhelmed the Imperials, infecting Vader's soldiers and turning them against the Sith. Although Sssl had only intended to scare off the invaders, her plans changed when the Dark Lord himself was seemingly infected. In reality, Vader's mechanical body was immune to the plague, allowing him to feign subservience and draw the priestess out. Using a
, Vader forced Sssl to order her own forces to drag her into the lava—a scene that made Rersey lose his sanity. Vaneé praised his master and noted that the Mustafarians would fear Vader's name in the future.
Yes the naval action at Mustafar was a short-term win. But the Empire now knows the measure of the Alliance's naval strength.
Darth Vader conferred from Fortress Vader with the
Fortress Inquisitorius on the nearby moon Nur using intelligence from the
rebels, who further found that Vader was not in the Mustafar system at the time, instead being aboard his
The hunt was ultimately a failure, and from his castle, Vader was instructed by Darth Sidious via hologram to abandon his obsession with Kenobi.
Imperial Star Destroyers stood watch over Mustafar.
's interrogation of Jarrus for information about the rebellion and the informant named "
, the Spectres freed their captive Jedi from the Grand Inquisitor. The latter's
was bisected during lightsaber combat against Jarrus and his Padawan,
, dooming the Star Destroyer. The Inquisitor himself chose to fall to his death rather than suffer for his failures.
, a resistance group affiliated with "Fulcrum" in a growing network of rebels formed by Senators
the Spectres successfully fled the Mustafar system and joined the larger Phoenix Cell. Grand Moff Tarkin also evacuated from his flagship,
which crashed into Mustafar's lava fields
in a defeat that embarrassed Tarkin and displeased Emperor Palpatine.
The skirmish over Mustafar marked one of the earliest rebel victories in the
and heightened rebellious activity in the Outer Rim,
perceiving the Empire as vulnerable following rumors of the Empire's show of weakness at Mustafar.
Mon Mothma wrote in documents assembled in
that the action at Mustafar was but a short-term success, considering that the rebels had revealed the naval capacity of their sector fleet to the Empire.
Indeed, the Emperor sent Darth Vader to personally handle the rebel group.
Having become a part of Bail Organa's rebel network, Kanan Jarrus and Ezra Bridger began working with their fellow rebel Force-sensitive, Ahsoka Tano.
Tano reached out to Jarrus with report of her investigation on the Sith Lord who
shortly prior—unbeknownst to them, he was Darth Vader
and formerly the Jedi Anakin Skywalker, who instructed Tano.
She had been monitoring transmissions from Mustafar, and while information on the Sith Lord remained elusive, she had gathered more intelligence on the Empire's Inquisitors. The former Jedi decoded two sets of coordinates from the Mustafar transmissions, and after she learned of an incident above the planet
, she and the Spectres investigated the world
, where they uncovered the Inquisitors' plot to kidnap Force-sensitive infants.
Tano recalled that it was similar to the kidnapping attempt that she and her master had foiled on Mustafar during the Clone Wars.
based on intelligence about the Empire's operations on Mustafar, a small
located near Vader's castle and steal a vital artifact. Upon infiltrating the base, the rebels discovered the artifact was a
, a precursor to the lightsaber, and escaped with information about the ancient weapon despite Vader's intervention.
Whoa. Whoa, that looks like—that looks like Mustafar. Mustafar's a mining planet. Why are the Imperials taking us there?
A smuggler and ZO-E3 arrive at Mustafar.
while Mustafar maintained its reputation as a mining world, a
were forcefully taken to Mustafar, having been taken out of
Karius served Vader as his second-in-command on Mustafar,
and the smuggler and ZO-E3 were held in Vader's castle. The Sith Lord then interrogated the smuggler, realizing that they had a strong connection to the Force and was a descendant of Lady Corvax. However, they then escaped below the castle to the underground Corvax Fortress, meeting the Mustafarian
Darth Vader briefly taught the Corvax descendant to harness the power of the Force in order to retrieve the Bright Star artifact, wishing to revive Padmé Amidala with it.
The Sith Lord was prevented from doing so by the descendant, who staged an escape from the fortress and destroyed the Bright Star and the Aeon Engine, allowing Mustafar to begin restoring its forested ecosystems.
Near Fortress Vader, the fertile soil grounds of
a bog named Corvax Fen began developing.
Orson Krennic arrives at Fortress Vader.
the Empire completed construction on the
threatened to expose the Death Star's capabilities to the galaxy at large,
Krennic, arriving while Vader was sustained within a
was escorted into Fortress Vader's rotunda by Vaneé to await the Dark Lord. Confronting the uneasy director, Vader admonished Krennic for his mistakes, using the Force to choke the aspirational officer when he further requested an audience with the Emperor. With his message relayed,
Despite Vader's threats, Krennic failed in his endeavors
and the Death Star was soon destroyed by the Rebel Alliance. Around the same time, the rebels also destroyed the Empire's
, was heavily damaged. They were forced to crash-land on Mustafar, a planet that Graf hoped would lead to her crew's salvation. Surrounded by lava, the rebels abandoned their ship and began toward the only structure in sight; Vader's fortress.
They did not make it far before being attacked by Mustafar's exploding beetles. After defeating the beetles and arguing over the best course of action, Graf and her crew were cornered by a
Escaping the troopers, the group entered the fortress but soon became separated in its dark halls. Alerted to their presence by his aide Vaneé, Vader confronted the rebels,
although Graf and her remaining crew managed to escape Mustafar.
The rebels' successful escape from Vader's castle was remembered by the native Mustafarians by the aftermath of the Empire's collapse.
Vaneé kept Hudd locked within the fortress and tortured him, all the while tormenting him with horrific tales from across the galaxy,
including the story of Vader's brutal murder of Sssl years prior.
The abuse and starvation that Hudd suffered while chained to the Sith servant's
was so severe that he lost enough body mass to slip from his shackles and escape his cell.
to the Alliance but was ultimately recaptured and sentenced to death. His execution was stalled by Graf, however, who had
. Although Vaneé saw through her ruse, Graf and Hudd were able to escape and flee the planet with the rest of their crew. Vader, angered at his servant's ineptitude, rigged Vaneé up to the torture web.
The loss of the Death Star served to galvanize resistance across the galaxy, causing trouble for the weakened Empire. In response to the outbreak of rebellion, Vader was met at Fortress Vader by Admiral
. Overlooking Mustafar's lava fields, the trio discussed the proper route to deal with the rising Alliance, although Vader viewed Ozzel's suggestions as nothing more than excuses for incompetency. An interesting point from General Veers, however, persuaded Vader to view the rebels in a new light, prompting him to develop a different plan to
you. This time… you must rebuild yourself.
Vader was mutilated and burned just as he was at the end of the Clone Wars.
Vader attempted to turn his son, Luke Skywalker, to the dark side during a
, Vader temporarily abandoned his duties to the Emperor, embarking on a personal quest that led to the discovery of a
of Padmé Amidala. Vader allowed the rebels to live, a decision which convinced Sidious that his apprentice was in need of a reminder of his place. The Emperor mutilated Vader on Coruscant, ripping his cybernetic limbs from his body and strangling him as he had done to men like Krennic in the past.
Not finished with his lesson, Sidious took his student back to Mustafar. He had Vader's
drag him to the spot where Kenobi had defeated him decades ago, leaving the apprentice to fend for himself. Warned by his master that there would be consequences should he use the Force to save himself, a one-armed Vader crawled along the lava banks and retrieved his fallen lightsaber before slowly making his way to the ruins of the Techno Union installation. Sidious watched from Vader's
as the broken man pulled himself across the sand. Although
, warned that the Dark Lord planned to kill his master, Sidious was unconcerned and sent his
Darth Vader meets with the Eye of Webbish Bog.
Having reached the Techno Union installation ruins, the very building where he had slaughtered the Separatist Council decades prior, Vader repurposed surrounding Separatist droid parts as his own limbs and confronted Ochi, overpowering the assassin and demanding him to reveal Darth Sidious' plans. As Vader did so, the oracle
who, despite being deprived of his chest box and
by Ochi, fought his way through hordes of lava nymphs, lava fleas, and even a roggwart to reach the Eye's lava cavern. As Vader did so, he was tested by the Eye and reminded of his inner conflicts between his chosen Sith and Jedi destinies as well as between his personal desire of power and his need for his son. During Vader's journey to the Eye's lair,
and a group of death troopers spoke to Ochi, reminding the assassin to abide by the Emperor's directives.
At the end of Vader's trek to the Eye, the latter gave the cyborg a
and allowed him to leave the cavern to rejoin Ochi. Once outside, Vader made his way to the green Jedi starfighter that he took to Mustafar at the end of the Clone Wars,
repairing the ship until Ochi reappeared with the
. Having been promised Vader's cybernetic parts by Ochi, the army of droid pursued the Emperor's enforcer until they found that his parts were no more special than their own. In the midst of a quarrel with Ochi about their deal, the droids were interrupted by Vader, who took down the machines for use in retrofitting his green starfighter and an
, which he locked Ochi in after forcing the assassin to activate his wayfinder. In his determination to find the Emperor's secrets, Vader bound the pod to his starfighter and set off to the wayfinder's coordinates, reaching the
With Ochi in tow, Vader confronted Sidious on Exegol, an ancient Sith world which housed hundreds of Sidious' secret experiments and weapons. The Emperor reminded his wayward apprentice that he left him weak and broken on Mustafar's burning shores, and asked Vader what he learned from the experience. However, Vader remained rebellious, stating his intention to make his "master" fear him. Despite Vader's efforts, he was overwhelmed by Sidious' power. Terribly pained, Vader, despite having experienced a vision of his son telling him it was his destiny to destroy Sidious, accepted his master's dominance over him before leaving Exegol with him and Ochi.
―Ren, shouting at Vader, and a Knight of Ren
—Darth Sidious had placed the key there, but did not know that it unlocked Momin's fabled
, which held power that threatened even the Sith.
to destroy the Sith, Qi'ra had obtained the full layout,
and security details of the fortress and convinced the Knights'
, to go ahead with the raid despite initial reluctance from other Knights. The Knight
had complained that "the job was too hot" not just because Mustafar's surface was a hellscape, and fellow Knights
also had their own concerns. Nevertheless, Qi'ra promised the Knights glory and the freedom to claim any objects to keep for themselves aside from the key.
The Knights of Ren enter Fortress Vader through the Sith cave.
to approach the fortress from the south. Ren had concluded that the sensors of the Imperial garrison on the building's far side could not detect them given Mustafar's magnetic field, and as they used their speeder's signal
, they were able to approach undetected. The Knights approached an old entrance to the fortress that was covered by lava, but by using the Force to clear a way through, they entered the Sith cave below the installation. The helmet of Momin still lay in the cave, which spooked Bazzra into shooting and destroying it. They then continued on their route towards the vault.
As they neared the vault, the Knights were spotted by Vaneé, who warned them that it was too late for them to turn back and that Vader would learn of their presence. The Knights turned their weapons on Vaneé, but he was protected by a force field. Meanwhile, a large group of lava troopers surrounded the Knights and a battle began. As the Knights fought their way to the vault, Ren began to cut open the door to the vault with
. Inside the vault, Ren used the Force to listen for the Screaming Key, and located the small gray key. Realizing that the battle had also gone quiet, Ren asked if they had defeated all the troopers, and while the Knights told him that they had all departed for unexplained reasons, Darth Vader emerged. Vader quickly killed the Knight
with a Force choke before Ren engaged him in lightsaber combat. As Vader and Ren traded blows, Vader learned that his opponents were the Knights of Ren. The remaining Knights fled at Ren's command, and Ren soon jumped out of a window to join them, using
to survive the fall. Vader attempted to use the Force to grab the key back out of Ren's hand, but the other Knights fired their blasters at Vader, forcing him to use his energy to deflect their shots. The Knights then fled on their speeders and left Mustafar with the key, which they delivered to Qi'ra's ally,
where The Archivist believed the Fermata Cage to be.
―Darth Vader, training to focus his abilities on Mustafar
The Eye of Webbish Bog called out to Vader, who entered his lair and experienced visions that the being hoped would serve as a warning to the Sith Lord of an impending culmination of interconnected galactic events. After receiving the visions, Vader found that the Eye was being poisoned by a device left in his cave and subsequently ambushed by several Mustafarians. The natives were unhappy with the Sith Lord's intrusion on their planet, but Vader dispatched them at the cost of only a scar left on his helmet and eliminated the device that had been plaguing the Eye. The Sith then returned to his castle, where he spoke with the Emperor via hologram about Lady Qi'ra's machinations against them.
to defeat them, Luke Skywalker communicated with a red kyber crystal on the planet
, in the process experiencing a vision in which he saw Fortress Vader in the midst of a red lightning storm as well as his father, Darth Vader.
Qi'ra's activation of the Fermata Cage during her war against the Sith had
Vader's mastery of the Force, and the Dark Lord, wielding the
, returned to the lava fields before his castle to train himself in focusing his powers.
, intended to control Vader as he was a cyborg who could use the Force. It arrived on Mustafar as the corrupted rebel
failed as the Scourge's attention was diverted by an
elsewhere and the breakthrough of being able to control the consciousness of cyborg organics.
While training with his droid army, Vader received a hologram transmission from Grand Vizier Amedda, who relayed the Emperor's order to reclaim his flagship, the
by the Scourge. Vader and his droids thus departed for the
After successfully reclaiming the flagship, the Sith Lord took his droids and his personal
and returned to Mustafar, where another droid repaired its fellow veterans while Vader confronted the Eye of Webbish Bog, demanding power and control—while battling the Scourge, Amedda had ordered the
s destruction with Vader onboard. The Eye reminded Vader that power lied with his master, Darth Sidious, citing the
in which Sidious murdered his own master. While Vader prepared to depart for Coruscant's Imperial Palace with his droids and a
, succumbed to the Scourge and activated an
in the secret Techno Union droid factory.
Vader on the lava plains, and the Sith Lord's crude Force power through his Zaly Shield and staff proved ineffective. In their attempt to trigger Vader's hatred so that he could further draw on the dark power that hate channeled, the Dark Lord's droids
joined in the attack, but to no avail. Arex urged the Sith to think about what he hated most, and the cyborg realized that he hated himself; using his self-loathing, Vader channeled his hate into fine Force power to destroy the Scourge's octuptarra, damaging Gee-Ninety, Arex, and ZED-6-7 in the process. Vader also found that he hated his master, Darth Sidious, even more than himself, and set off for Coruscant
, setting the stage for a confrontation with his master and the
Vader's attack failed, as the Emperor turned Vader's own troops, including his hand-picked squad of death troopers, against him.
Vader eliminated the squad and had their bodies sent to a medical lab on Mustafar. There the Sith Lord mused that although the death troopers organic minds made them superior to droids, it also supplied them with a will that could be turned against him.
Following the end of the droid crisis, Vader sought to appropriate the Scourge's ability to control automatons and cyborgs for his own ends. The Dark Lord captured the members of
—a Rebel Alliance squad of cybernetically-enhanced commandos—and brought them to Mustafar for experimentation. Under the supervision of ZED-6-7, the rebels were equipped with droid brains that allowed Vader to interface with and command them. The process was extremely invasive, however, causing severe mental anguish in the commandos that was shared by Vader. During these experiments,
Sly Moore met with Vader in his fortress with the intent of persuading him to join her
, a splinter group of disaffected Imperial officers and bureaucrats who planned to overthrow the Emperor.
Vader and the Schism's crusade against the Emperor finally came to a head in a
, where Vader fully submitted to the will of the Emperor. The aftermath of the battle saw the Schism revealed as a ruse concocted by Palpatine, as well the recovery of
. Ochi of Bestoon later recovered the capsules on
and presented them to Vader in his castle throne room on Mustafar.
It is not over. Not yet. Not while you can bring him back…your master will
to the fires of Mustafar and, this time, will be made whole… Vader triumphant. Vader supreme. Vader…
Toward the end of the Galactic Civil War, Vader was saved by the selfless compassion of his son, Luke Skywalker, and in turn sacrificed himself to destroy the Emperor
Having re-embraced his identity as Anakin Skywalker as he succumbed to the injuries
Vader died leaving his fortress without a host.
scouted suspected Imperial planets and reported his findings to the leadership of the
—the Rebellion's successor state—on the world
; due to Mustafar's proximity to Raydonia, Admiral
sent a scout to there, along with the planets Tatooine,
Following news of Darth Vader's death over Endor that the Rebel Alliance had broadcasted, Mustafarians gathered around the fortress' vicinity in celebration. Lightning storm clouds and lava on Mustafar stirred around Vader's castle, howls sounded in the night, and cries echoed across the lava plains. The Mustafarian boy
recognized that his kind were not truly free as long as they lived under the shadow of Vader's castle, and so resolved to rid the land of Vader's curse by bringing the castle to ruin. Along with
from a store of equipment from the obsidian mines belonging to Tuttel's uncle, Lellis. However, the latter forbid the young boys from entering Vader's castle for the reason that it was lethal and evil, telling the story of how Vaneé came into servitude under Vader and further speculating that the young Mustafarians were only pursuing glory.
Two young Mustafarians ventured into Fortress Vader despite being cautioned against doing so by Lellis.
Nevertheless, Giggek led Tuttel into Vader's castle by way of lava flea, venturing in to find a pit trapping Vaneé, the servant of Vader and the self-styled "one true
" who was detained by Vader there some time ago. Rescuing the Acolyte in hopes of not bringing death upon anyone in the process of destroying Vader's castle, Giggek was at once betrayed by Vaneé, who dropped the boy down the pit in hopes of bringing death to those who sought to tarnish his master's legacy. However, after instructing his Mustafarian companion to flee, which Tuttel did with their lava flea, Giggek ignited his explosives through a remote
, and although the blast did not bring down Vader's castle, Vaneé was buried in black sand. However, the Sith servant survived. A voice familiar to Vaneé told him not to fear, and assured its servant that he could return Vader to the fires of Mustafar and be made whole.
And I'm sorry. You of all people must be—
Scared out of my wits? Wishing I'd never even heard the
Mustafar? It's the dreams, Lina. They're getting to us all.
You're right, Hudd. That's all they are… dreams. And dreams aren't real… Dreams can't hurt you.
―Lina Graf and Thom Hudd, on Mustafar once more
At some point, Vaneé witnessed holonews reports on the Battle of Endor and the death of Vader, but he refused to believe that his master had met his end. The acolyte continued to maintain the Dark Lord's castle, anticipating his return at any time.
Vaneé told the voice he believed to be his master that everyone in the galaxy believed that he was dead, which the supposed ghost of Vader replied to by saying that the Sith can never truly be killed since it was the will of the dark side. Vaneé then orchestrated a ritual in which Vader's ghost reached out across the galaxy to imprint nightmares upon others' minds. One such nightmare reached
, brother of Lina Graf, in which Milo had a nightmare about undead droids and himself being taken to Mustafar by
After he discussed Vader's castle with his sister and CR-8R, Milo Graf and the droid went missing for days
—CR-8R had been afflicted by a signal that scrambled his processors
and had incapacitated the organic before bringing him to Vaneé on Mustafar. Suffering from a dream of her brother being trapped on Mustafar, Lina requested New Republic
to spare a ship to investigate the lava world, which had remained under Imperial control. Although Mothma denied Graf's request, Organa suggested that she contact the smuggler
Before arriving at Vader's castle, they enlisted Graf's old crew, Thom Hudd and
; Hudd had also been experiencing nightmares related to Vaneé and the fortress.
, Lina Graf experienced a nightmare where her crew was attacked by an Imperial
and TIE fighters upon arriving in the Mustafar system. Mid-battle, Lina Graf was attacked by the phantom of Darth Vader and encountered her brother, Milo, who transformed into Darth Vader and killed her crewmates. When Lina awoke from her nightmare, her crew and their ship had landed at Fortress Vader.
While the crew broke into the installation, Lina was contacted by Milo via comlink, pleading to be rescued. They then encountered a machine resembling Darth Vader and wielding a blue-bladed lightsaber, but promptly destroyed it and found CR-8R, who regained his normal processing and revealed Vaneé to be the mastermind.
Anakin Skywalker as a Force spirit, having rescued the crew of Lina Graf from the ghosts of Vader's castle
Vaneé soon captured the crew, intending to use them for a ritual that supposedly would revive Darth Vader. He released lava fumes into the captivity chamber, declaring that Lina Graf would be the vessel for Vader's return and that the Dark Lord would be immortal, ushering a new empire. However, Lina saw through Vaneé's madness and the hallucinations brought by the lava fumes, conquering her fear; taking advantage of Vaneé's fear for Vader, she deceived the man and freed her crew with the blue lightsaber. Upon forcing Vaneé into the restraints that he had used to detain her, Lina fled just as her blade extinguished, leaving Vaneé trapped with his own nightmares within the castle. Before departing Mustafar safely, however, Lina's crew followed the light of a blue blade in order to flee Fortress Vader—unbeknownst to them, the light was created by the
Black Sun is currently headquartered on the lava planet Mustafar and is mainly controlled by Vigos from several noble Falleen families.
Mustafar grew in obscurity in the decades that followed, and Vader's castle eventually fell into ruins.
Thanks to the destruction of the Bright Star,
Mustafar's ecosystem began to be healed.
—a battlefield that was designed after Fortress Vader and Mustafar's scorching environment—at the
. To complete the immersion of the battlefield, a wide screen projection was used at the side to display Mustafar's rocky terrain and flowing lava rivers.
, claimed to have been deployed to a very hot lava planet and claimed to have fought a
on that world, although he could not recall if it had been Mustafar or
, was quick to warn fans that Sentinel could not always be taken at his word.
attempted to uncover the coordinates to the long-lost planet
. Mustafar was one of the many worlds in her database that she scoured through to find the legendary planet.
A variety of individuals from off-world visited the planet during this period,
Volcanic Planets: Your Guide to the Galaxy's Hottest Destinations
, one of the many travel guides he wrote throughout his career.
, Black Sun had resumed operations on Mustafar, which served as its headquarters. During this time, Mustafar was also mentioned in "
, which mentioned Black Sun's operations as well as the rescue of Marg Krim's family during the Clone Wars.
many pilgrims had come to the ruins of Vader's castle seeking to tap into the Sith Lord's dark power. One group of pilgrims,
, guarded the castle ruins as well as its secrets jealously,
colonizing the nearby Corvax Fen and planting a forest of irontrees in the hopes of restoring Mustafar's once lush landscape from centuries ago, believing that the soil was soaked by the tears of Lady Corvax.
cared for the trees as they sought to connect to the power of the Sith.
The Alazmec also venerated Vader's memory and defended Mustafar's secrets against seekers whom they considered unworthy.
Vader's aging advisor Vaneé lived amongst them at the Dark Lord's castle;
though ancient by human standards, he had extended his lifespan through extreme cybernetic augmentations not unlike those once undergone by Vader himself. Although he continued to tend to the castle grounds, he eventually came to acknowledge that Darth Vader had truly died and would never again haunt the cooling plains of Mustafar.
I must warn you, our fiery planet burns away deception. If you proceed down this path, you will encounter your true self.
Mustafar was visited by Kylo Ren, Supreme Leader of the First Order, years after the death of his grandfather, Darth Vader.
sought to rid himself of all connections to his past, including his maternal grandfather, Darth Vader.
Knowing that Vader once ruled Mustafar, Ren had at a time regarded it as hallowed ground—the place where Anakin Skywalker died and a Dark Lord of the Sith was born.
with the intent of destroying the legacy of Vader that remained on the planet. On this personal crusade, he encountered members of the Alazmec of Winsit
—who deemed Ren unworthy of Mustafar's secrets
—and slew them at the entrance of his grandfather's fortress. Inside he met Vaneé, who convinced Ren that his past could be used as a weapon, as even Vader had used his painful memories to deepen his connection to the dark side. The two departed Mustafar and traveled to Tatooine to uncover more of Ren's
uttered "what in the depths of Mustafar?" during his
to acquire starfighters for the Resistance when
arrived over Mustafar following a mysterious
Supreme Leader Ren had returned to the world once ruled by his grandfather, this time accompanied by the might of the
Kylo Ren rallied his forces to Mustafar as part of his
to confront whoever was behind the transmission. The Supreme Leader and his stormtroopers
of Alazmec colonists near the ruins of Vader's castle,
who were sworn to protect the surrounding fen.
Afterward, Ren traveled through the fen and arrived at a small lake, where he encountered the Eye of Webbish Bog.
Ren killed the Alazmec colonists before claiming the Sith wayfinder that once belonged to his grandfather.
The Eye knew what Ren sought but warned him of encountering his "true self" if he were to continue down his current path. When Ren did not respond, the Eye relented and rewarded the Supreme Leader for his victory over the Alazmec, pointing the way to Vader's Sith wayfinder.
Ren was guided by wisps of the dark side and came to an altar surrounded by the fortress ruins where he found the wayfinder.
The Eye of Webbish Bog then disappeared into the lake, leaving Ren alone with the artifact. Knowing that he would not be the only one to travel to Mustafar in search of the object,
Ren, with the word "Exegol" suddenly in his thoughts,
departed the planet with the rest of the First Order forces. The Eye's prophecy soon came true: Ren reached the planet Exegol, where he found the resurrected Sidious with his
to abiding by the light side of the Force, joining the Jedi
After the destruction of Sidious at the Battle of Exegol, the
The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
. In the book, Kin wrote about Mustafar's feared reputation and referenced the file titled "Mustafar" in the
Mustafar is our world. We have already lost so much. The lifefires barely burn. It is time to come together…and save what is left.
However harsh and volcanic, Mustafar was not devoid of life.
Boasting a population of approximately 15,000
of the Mustafarians, a species primarily concerned with their own advancement and survival
that lived in underground caves created by the lava fleas that ate through the planet's crust.
Two races of Mustafarians evolved in distinctly different cave systems
in the mountains from extremophile arthropods,
living near the planet's equator and the
in the north. They lived together as needed, although the geographical distance and limited desirable living space tended to limit the subspecies in their own communities.
Only venturing up to the surface in order to collect valuable minerals from the lava flows, the southern Mustafarians carried out the heavy labor involved due to
their short and strong physiology that developed due to the relatively higher gravity of their homeland, surviving high temperatures and frequent accidents on lava flows thanks to their thick carapaces, while the tall and slender northern Mustafarians had keen, faceted
which easily spotted flaws in ore and machinery alike,
and who acted as guards and expert riders of the lava flea, a creature that the natives made their armor from the heat-resistant shells of.
biology allowed Mustafarians to withstand the intense heat of their homeworld, although they still required insulated clothes and breathing apparatus to work on the surface.
The native Mustafarians developed and sought technology for survival more so than most other species, and some enhanced themselves with cybernetics to better carry out common tasks and withstand the harsh environments of their homeworld. Having learned from tragic experiences, Mustafarians did not trust imported technology until they themselves modified and adapted them to Mustafar's climes. While the two Mustafarian subspecies lived together as needed, the geographical distance and limited desirable living space tended to keep them in their own communities,
although it was not unheard of for clans to be comprised of both northern and southern Mustafarians.
Mustafar's volcanic crust allowed for the creation of Mustafarian Lava Buns.
The Mustafarians grew few crops, as the lack of water meant traditional
, even when located underground, could not be sustained;
Nevertheless, despite the what little life Mustafar had compared to other worlds, various types of edible fungi and domesticated herds of large insectoid creatures made up much of the Mustafarian diet, and unlike other hotbeds of industry in the galaxy, Mustafar was largely self-sufficient in regards to its food supply.
by placing sweet balls of dough upon the planet's volcanic crust, heating it up to create a red bread with a cracked and blackened exterior. The
witnessed the production of the baked goods during a visit to Mustafar, learning the recipe to the buns in the process. Tuggs later served the buns at his mobile
Although they typically inhabited natural caverns and abandoned mines, Mustafarians built outdoor structures as necessary, including saucer-shaped buildings at and near active mining sites. Their structures were strongly reinforced and armored to protect them from natural disasters, making their larger facilities
The Mustafarian people shared a deep connection with their planet,
seeking harmony with the natural forces that sculpted their homeworld.
Surrounded by volcanic magma, their culture was tied to the ebbs and flows of the lava on which they lived.
In the difficult times of the Empire, history and lore of Mustafar lived on in a Mustafarian leader known as the Priestess, who provided guidance and invaluable information to natives and visitors alike.
and members of Father Kkkt's clan spoke of "lifefires" and "endfires" while discussing the arrival of Darth Vader; Kkkt himself used the Force to form a symbol within a lava river, which he interpreted as an omen of the planet's future. The Mustafarians had a strong desire to protect their homeworld, banding together
on multiple occasions to defend against Imperial forces.
They had a special relationship with the other life on Mustafar; lava fleas were used to jump over lava flows in a rite of passage, and kahel cave fungi served as the inspiration for Mustafarian architecture.
, whom she prayed to after encountering a deceased darkghast.
The Mustafarians were fierce defenders of their planet.
Mustafarians were politically organized in accordance with the caverns and communities they inhabited, although they had little in the way of a central government. However, some trusted leaders were allowed to make deals with offworlders in order to help ensure their survival and quality of life. As a result, the Mustafarians fell under the sway of the Techno Union and later the Mining Guild,
serving them as ore scouts, miners, and refinery laborers. While they resented the presence of offworlders,
Mustafarians were generally willing to tolerate a degree of outside political influence as long as it furthered their own cause. Because of the demanding environment of their world, Mustafarians were generally insular and disinterested in galactic affairs, few regarding offworlders with much curiosity. Their focus on the advancement and survival of their own species overrode other concerns, a result of inhabiting a world that demanded so much in order to so much as continue living.
which allowed for the precise expression of concepts related to naturals features above and below ground, especially phenomena that were deceptively dangerous. Although the Mustafarian subspecies spoke different dialects, any two individuals could communicate on a functional level despite differing terms and cultural concepts. While they were also capable of speaking
and other common galactic languages, most that did not work with the Mining Guild or deal with outsiders by necessity did not bother to learn Basic. However, Mustafarians that lived or traveled offworld almost always spoke Basic and sometimes the language of their trading partners. Due to their history with the Techno Union, they were more likely to know languages regularly used among former Separatist worlds.
Mustafarian travels off-world were driven by business pursuits and trade negotiations, and were generally restricted to the Outer Rim. So long as their safety or that of their companions was not threatened, the species was disinterested in galactic affairs, which made them foremost disinclined to leave their homeworld. For Mustafarian merchants and Mining Guild personnel, regular trips were made off-world to trade for upgrades in protective technology and equipment, as well as to deliver ores to buyers. However, there were some Mustafarians who sought full-time employment off-world. They found most inhabited worlds cold, yet relished the relative safety.
Black Sun's Falleen leadership was based out of Mustafar until the Empire established a garrison on the planet.
The Techno Union, a guild of technology firms led by
came to value the lucrative minerals of Mustafar and set up operations on the planet.
The offworlders introduced heavy industry, and were welcomed by the native Mustafarians in exchange for access to mining droids and heavy-duty speeders.
However, the natives became subjugated, being put to work in the Techno Union's mining operations
Management staff of the Union utilized native buildings throughout their operations and provided a refuge for the Separatist Council during the final days of the Clone Wars.
during its time under Techno Union ownership
included the ore extraction droid, the DLC-13 mining droid, and the electrorefining droid. A number of Separatist battle droids and mouse droids were also present within the facility used by the Separatist Council in the late Clone Wars.
Aside from the native people and the Techno Union, Mustafar was also inhabited by Falleen,
that controlled the vast Black Sun criminal empire.
We bow only to one, the Dark Lord, the true father and ruler of the galaxy. Vader.
―Kylo Ren's translation of an Alazmec warning
The Sith Lord Darth Vader called Mustafar his home during the Imperial Era. Originally coming to the planet in hopes of resurrecting his deceased wife,
Vader lived on the volcanic world for over a decade, utilizing its scorched earth to conduct his personal business,
Stories of the Jedi who died by his hand on Mustafar became synonymous with the planet itself.
During his visit to Fortress Vader, Director Krennic theorized that Mustafar was Vader's homeworld, imagining that the Dark Lord's cybernetics were designed to allow him to survive while away from the molten planet.
The Sith Lord's occupancy was known to others in the galaxy as well. After discovering that Mustafar was Vader's domain, the
resistance group known as the Amidalans deduced that he was responsible for Padmé's death and plotted to kill the Dark Lord to avenge the fallen
Darth Vader became the dark lord of Mustafar from his obsidian fortress.
As Darth Vader established his personal headquarters on Mustafar, the forces of the Galactic Empire followed.
Vaneé entered Vader's service as custodian of his castle
while Admiral Karius served as Vader's second-in-command on the planet
The Imperials' occupation of the planet forced Black Sun
and the Techno Union to abandon their operations, with the Mining Guild taking over what remained.
enough that the native population sought to remove them from the planet.
Stormtroopers guarded Imperial interests on Mustafar;
and Lava Troopers, specialized soldiers that operated within the planet's volcanic environment.
M.A.R. Corps of the Rebel Alliance was briefly stationed on Mustafar after being forcibly conscripted by Darth Vader.
Many groups of cultists came to Mustafar in the decades since Vader's passing, seeking the power that the Sith Lord once tapped into on the planet. One of those groups, called the Alazmec of Winsit, gained control of Corvax Fen. They planted several irontrees in its fertile soils in the hopes of restoring the landscape that was once present centuries ago, and were devoted to guarding it from outsiders such as Kylo Ren and the First Order.
Lady Corvax abided here with her husband Sir Dorwin, living in peace with my people.
―The Priestess speaks to the descendant of Lady Corvax
Lady Corvax was responsible for Mustafar's devastation.
In the planet's vibrant past, the Mustafarians shared the world with Lady Corvax and her husband Dorwin, humanoids who lived peacefully with the natives. Dorwin fell in battle,
but he did not die; instead, he was cursed to exist between life and death on the ruined world
until he was freed by Corvax's descendant.
The ancient Sith established a presence on Mustafar, hoping to reap the benefits of the dark world and obtain immortality.
At some point, the Sith Lord Momin found himself on Mustafar, and later, during the Imperial Era, recalled that long ago time.
Two mysterious beings resided in a lava cavern near Fortress Vader
, who were submerged in their lair and were locked in a symbiotic relationship. Their lair became a small lake beside the Corvax Fen, and they guarded the path to the ruins of Vader's castle.
Spoken of in the myths of the Mustafarians, the Eye was defended by the Alazmec of Winsit.
It is requested that this article section
Please improve it in any way that you see fit, and remove this notice once the article section is more complete.
―Quinlan Vos and Asajj Ventress ask a local for directions in Zitontown
The native Mustafarian populace, including both the Northern and Southern sub-species, took up residence in underground caves that were made by lava fleas munching through Mustafar's crust.
Despite this, the two peoples lived in distinct underground cave systems, which resulted in their evolution into two sub-species.
The Mustafarians' underground buildings were designed in the shape of kahel cave fungus,
which was highly symbolic in Mustafarian culture.
A mining complex dots the molten surface of Mustafar.
Due to the planet's fiery surface, outdoor structures were built where necessary—usually at and near active mining sites
—and buildings on Mustafar were held up by stem-like gravity supports.
, one of the few remaining Mustafarian settlements at the time of the Clone Wars. A cataclysmic eruption that occurred centuries before the war's end almost destroyed the entire local population. The city and its surrounding structures were of Mustafarian architecture: mushroom-like structures with a habitation dome raised from the scorched ground, based on the shape of the local culture's highly symbolic kahel cave fungus.
The saucer-shaped structures were strongly reinforced and armored against natural calamities, with larger facilities on Mustafar becoming fortresslike in construction and durability.
Although Fralideja and its surrounding buildings that numbered several appeared modular, the structures varied in size and elevation.
who rose to leadership of the organization during the Clone Wars.
that served as the organization's headquarters during the conflict.
The installation's architecture was distinct from other facilities located on Mustafar.
Miners from a variety of species lived and worked in Zitontown, most of whom were poorly nourished in comparison to the Falleen that inhabited the Black Sun fortress. In addition to the fortress, Moj also possessed a palace.
Few people have the honor of seeing Lord Vader in his sanctum. I suggest you keep all you witnessed to yourself.
―Vaneé, to Orson Krennic, upon the latter's arrival at Fortress Vader
During the Clone Wars, Darth Sidious secretly maintained an old mining outpost on Mustafar, planning to use the facility to train Force-sensitive children to become his agents. The Sith tasked the bounty hunter Cad Bane with kidnapping children and delivering them to the facility for their training. However, it was destroyed by Sidious' crew of nanny droids after Anakin Skywalker and Ahsoka Tano rescued multiple kidnapped children from the facility.
The Techno Union maintained multiple mining operations on Mustafar, including a complex built into a lava-filled mountain—which also housed a secret battle droid factory—and a nearby residence for
and mine management staff located opposite to the capital city Fralideja. Around the area was a molten rock plain with erupting lava geysers that were repressed by the facility's repulsor fields. In addition to containing a secret command facility, the structure served as cover for a Techno Union droid
concealed inside the mountain upon which the mine sat, manufacturing battle droids
The repulsor fields that protected the complex were inadvertently deactivated during the duel between Obi-Wan Kenobi and Darth Vader and the facility soon fell into ruin.
Fortress Vader was an obsidian tower built by Lord Momin and Darth Vader as the latter's personal retreat on the Gahenn Plains during the Imperial Era.
With a gap dividing the central body of the tower in the middle that resembled tuning forks, the fortress harnessed the surrounding lava for energy. It was also designed to channel the dark side's power,
and, along with being near the site of the Sith Lord's duel against his former master Obi-Wan Kenobi,
it was located above an ancient Sith cave to provide a more powerful locus of the dark side for Darth Vader to draw upon.
It was also on the site of the underground fortress of Lady Corvax.
When visiting the fortress, Imperial officers were intimidated by the surrounding environments, and the treacherous landscape of Mustafar worked to remind them of their place.
Vader's castle had an Imperial base in its vicinity, which housed a part of the garrison protecting Vader's sanctum.
Mustafar is not like other planets. It is
. Deep beneath its surface rests a locus for the
The Sith cave housed a powerful heart of darkness.
Formerly a part of a Sith temple, the cave beneath Vader's castle contained a locus of the dark side of the Force.
The walls of the cave were covered in glowing runic symbols, which Vader and Momin later rearranged to focus the energies of the planet. By tapping into the dark powers of the locus, an individual could open a rift between time and space to enter a portal through the Force.
Darth Vader also forged his first red lightsaber at the cave, and
, the First Order Supreme Leader who trained Kylo Ren, wore a
that featured obsidian carved from the same cave.
Corvax Fen was a vaguely hospitable bog that contained irontrees, being one of Mustafar's few such places. Located close to the ruins of Darth Vader's fortress, the fen was guarded by the Alazmec of Winsit, a group of cultists devoted to the Sith Lord.
Barren and noxious, the marsh was surrounded by a misty air that smelt of
. It contained a shallow lake of brackish water that was covered in an
It was a whole part of the plot that essentially got cut out. It may be in one of the sequels.
Ben and Vader have a confrontation, just like they have in
, and Ben almost kills Vader. As a matter of fact, he falls into a volcanic pit and gets fried and is one destroyed being.
―George Lucas on August 25, 1977, the earliest known mention of what would become Mustafar
Concept art of the Emperor's Throne Room situated above a lava lake, by Ralph McQuarrie
conceptualized Darth Vader's transformation into a cyborg happening after a duel with Ben Kenobi and the father of Luke Skywalker. The father is killed by Vader, who is confronted and nearly killed by Kenobi. Vader falls into a volcanic pit and is severely injured, necessitating his use of cybernetics.
The concept of a lava duel was revisited in the earliest versions of
. In those versions, Luke Skywalker fights Darth Vader over a lava lake in the
, located in a cave in the lowest levels of the Imperial capital
. Although this was visualized by veteran
, the concept was not carried over to the final script.
The concept of Kenobi dueling Vader, while altered with Skywalker's father now being Vader himself, was realized in
, twenty-eight years after the original film.
Mufasta's been around for a long time. I've always had this set piece: the end between Obi-Wan and Anakin. I knew that's where this movie was going to end up. It's all this volcanic land, with lava shooting up, so it's almost monochromatic in its red-and-blackness. I've had that image with me for a long time.
―George Lucas on Mustafar, known as "Mufasta" at that point in the production of
marked the first appearance of Mustafar.
Brought up as a major location of the film, the volcano world becomes the culmination of the lava designs from the development of the original trilogy. Whilst the planet is named "Mufasta" in earlier concepts for
, the finalized spelling was in place by
; George Lucas had decided to dedicate about twenty to thirty minutes screen time to the planet he respelled, and planned to include a major fight as well as a "love scene" there. Despite the new spelling, draftspeople and model-makers working on the film in
spelt the planet name as "Mustafa" when labelling an early 3-D rendering of the lava world's Separatist war room.
Writer-director George Lucas intended the lava planet to symbolize the
The color scheme of the planet's wilderness was emblematic of the anger and regret that fueled the duel between Skywalker and Kenobi, with the fires and lava floes visualizing the characters' feelings and the conflict between them.
Lucas also said that Anakin Skywalker's injuries that were inflicted by Mustafar led to the loss of his power in the Force; Darth Sidious' plan for his new apprentice to become more powerful than himself was derailed by Obi-Wan Kenobi.
Before Lucasfilm artists finished work on the
, George Lucas wanted ideas of what his lava planet for Episode III would look like.
had previous made sketches of Mustafar's volcanoes, as well as a castle on the world.
The Episode III art department began working in early 2002,
, artists conceptualized Lucas' lava planet as either a technologically advanced world or a wild, primordial location.
When Lucas was shown one of Church's more abstract and fanciful concepts for Mustafar, the director said that he wanted a more grounded design.
The concept artists who worked on Mustafar for Episode III include Concept Design Supervisors Ryan Church and
seen in the final film as natives of Mustafar, although Lucas decided to use his designs for the residents of
After the artists made a variety of concepts, such as controlled mineral-harvesting environments complete with lava dams as well as an orbital ring structure that siphoned energy from the lava world, the two extremes ultimately coalesced into what became of Mustafar: a blend of lava-reliant technology and an untamed hellscape.
With Lucas stating that the film would begin with seven battles on seven planets in June of 2002, Church made his ring world concept as a
crashing on the world as a result of a battle overhead
—he had little knowledge of the plot at the time, and thought that the duel between Kenobi and Skywalker could start on the ship and continue after it crashes on the surface of "Mufasta."
piece by Tiemens depicts several Venators attacking the world.
Since Lucas insisted that designs for different worlds be instantly distinguishable, owing to the many new planets introduced in Episode III, Church first made a sketch of a Mustafar chamber without color, dated to
, 2002. While the Episode III artists did not know the function of Mustafar beside the apparent ending when it was made, the piece features an imposing "alien-imperial" throne.
A later piece by Church conveys the magnitude of the world's dangers by showing various technological apparatus keeping a Mustafar bunker together amid lava dams and lavafalls, with a
-class Star Destroyer docking at the facility. Dated to
of that year, the concept art still referred to the world as "Mufasta."
Our director's come up with a really good idea, which I think we'll probably use. I'm not quite sure how we're gonna do this, but what he wants to do
if they get down to the end and it breaks off so that it goes and lands in a river of lava, and they're on it.
―George Lucas, relaying Steven Spielberg's ideas for the duel on Mustafar
George Lucas revised his drafts for the film as the concept art for Mufasta developed, and left details of the duel between Vader and Kenobi untouched for guest director
to form ideas for, based on concept art approved by Lucas during his meetings with the art department.
During an art department meeting, Lucas relayed Spielberg's idea that Vader and Kenobi fight on an extended arm of a Mustafar facility that would break off and fall into the lava flows below. Another idea involves Vader and Kenobi taking shelter behind a ledge as a screen of embers fly down from a spurt of lava, bouncing around and catching on fire. To explain the arm breaking off the Mustafar facility, the art department suggested to Lucas that the film shows lava melting through the structure.
, Spielberg helped pre-visualize the Mustafar duel as well as the the Utapau chase scene, both as a favor to Lucas and to learn the latest pre-visualization methods for his own 2005 science fiction film,
, was erupting in late October, 2002, George Lucas asked
to arrange the filming of the ongoing volcanic eruption for Mustafar's imagery. With approval from the Italian government and a local guide, acclaimed
accompanied McCallum at the site for over a week,
capturing the bursting lava on a camera rented from a company in
Brett Northcutt's animated, cycloramic background matte painting of Mustafar.
Amongst other images, lava fountain elements shot by Fricke were incorporated by
into an animated background cyclorama used in
A mesh of various assets that also included stills of gravel at the
parking lot and computer generated images, the matte painting comprised of 25,000 pixels and took several months to make, and served as the backdrop for Mustafar in the film.
, from Skywalker Ranch, Ryan Church made another Mustafar piece to communicate to various film departments of the layout of the Mustafar duel. The piece gives a general idea of the environment in which it would take place and the direction of the battle.
s main model for Mustafar measured eight meters wide and eleven meters long,
and was used for establishing shots of Mustafar's surface surrounding the mining facility.
Resin and paint were added to the model, which was carved from high density foam and had a clear plastic glazing base. Between the rocky elements, the model revealed three channels of the transparent plastic for the flow of simulated lava—which was made from tens of thousands of liters of
with yellow dye. In order to achieve the effect of oozing, glowing lava, ILM employees such as
initially poured buckets of methocel into the upper end of the model, which they tipped by ten degrees, and placed studio lights of 250,000
beneath the plastic channels that the "lava" through. The thickness of the methocel determined the varying shades of red, orange, and yellow resulting from the creative lighting, and black powdered cork was further sprinkled onto the liquid to simulate rocks being carried by the lava flow. An elaborate pump and filtration was installed to recycle the methocel from the bottom on the model back up to the top, maintaining its steady movement.
ILM further filmed faux explosions using additional methocel on an outdoor lot, as well as the lava bank at the end of Vader and Kenobi's duel—combined with their main lava flow model, Mustafar's model sequences took ILM eight months to film—the longest model shoot in the company's history. The final visuals of the fighting sequence comprise of multiple motion-control shots of the main model, digital animation,
and close up and action shots of Anakin Skywalker actor,
further incorporated the Mount Etna footage as both their own frames and as elements within other shots of the Mustafar sequences.
When Vader and Kenobi fight on the fallen mining complex arm, the lavafall
flows backwards as a result of an edit by George Lucas to ensure the camera follows the duelists in a single direction as they progress.
Mustafar was also a big deal for me, 'cause I argued with George about that, I said, 'Really, Mustafar?' Because that's where the whole thing with Vader happens
You find your fan-self clashing with the story that George wants to tell, 'cause we hold everything—'Oh, it's so precious to me, and nobody can know about Mustafar!"
We take it to such this uber-serious level and it always takes George to, you know, snap you out of it sometimes and say, 'But this a great ending to this trilogy
―Dave Filoni, on his initial reluctance to use Mustafar on the show
captives from a prison suspended over a volcanic caldera. Although this was cut when production paintings of the setting ended up looking too similar to Mustafar,
The symbolic Well of the Dark Side at the ethereal realm of Mortis.
Mustafar itself made an appearance in the show's
," serving as the final destination of a three-part arc in the series.
Development of the planet for the show was challenging for the
team, as the lava and explosion visuals required for the episode called for significant effects work. Supervising director
also noted that Mustafar's inclusion in the show was initially difficult for him as a fan; to him, the planet was too important to Anakin's story in
to be included earlier in the timeline. George Lucas, however, convinced him that Mustafar served as the ideal location for the arc's finale, prompting Filoni to rationalize that the world was not likely to be unknown to the galaxy at large, further reasoning that the planet's perceived significance among fans was superseded by the needs of the story.
, some of the elements of Mustafar's lava from
When we established Mustafar as Vader's home for
, we then needed more interiors and a bigger picture. So it was really fun to dig up those old McQuarrie designs, to figure out how to blend them with our aesthetic, as well as the aesthetic from
―Doug Chiang on Mustafar's appearance in
. It was the site of Fortress Vader, a stronghold where Darth Vader resided.
To prepare for the planet's return to film, art director Doug Chiang and the design team revisited Ralph McQuarrie's old designs for Mustafar and combined them with its depiction in
in order to create a unique aesthetic. Fortress Vader was created based off of a few of McQuarrie's designs,
including a series of paintings and sketches of an underground lava cave,
with the Emperor's throne on Had Abbadon
interpreted instead as Vader's throne in the Sith cave beneath the Dark Lord's castle.
It was also designed to look similar to a
, representing the structure being attuned to the Force, a theme also used when designing the
Interior concept designs for what eventually became the stronghold were created by Ryan Church,
, Brett Northcutt, and Erik Tiemens, while the landscape was drawn by Allsopp and
The one time we weren't in the studio got cut.
Yes. One time we were in a battle scene in a forest, with Kylo Ren. Our bits got cut out, so we have to wait for those on the extras.
―Gleeson and Grant speak on their deleted scene
Domhnall Gleeson and Richard E. Grant on
The planet was featured in the opening scene of the
, in which Kylo Ren leads a First Order attack on Mustafar to obtain a Sith wayfinder. While the final film features only about a minute of screentime for the world,
additional scenes were originally planned. Actors
, who played the First Order leaders Hux and Pryde, respectively, have stated that at one point their characters were meant to accompany Ren to Mustafar. Although the actors did indeed film the scene, it was
from the final cut of the film. Gleeson and Grant expressed a desire to see the scene released on home media,
A version of this scene was later included in
Another deleted scene, featuring Ren's encounter with the Eye of Webbish Bog on the planet, was filmed near the
. According to creature and special make-up effects creative supervisor
, the scene was cut due to its long length and concerns with conveying information to the audience effectively.
This scene also went on to be included in Carson's novelization,
The two works present different interpretations of the sequence, however. In Carson's book, Ren wades through the Eye's lake to reach a small island and obtain the wayfinder,
whereas Kogge's adaptation depicts the creature pointing Kylo beyond the lake and towards the remains of Vader's fortress.
This article assumes neither story has canonical precedence over the other and presents a combined version of these events.
You can see exotic worlds across the galaxy in the Empire.
―A segment of "In the Empire" in which Mustafar appears
Mustafar is among the various locations showcased in a montage promoting the
, Mustafar appears as one of the locations over which starfighter battles take place.
's script for a canceled Obi-Wan Kenobi feature film that later evolved into the
television series, Kenobi would fall in with
that are fleeing from the Empire. Tao, the lead refugee woman, takes Kenobi to a sacred shrine and instructs the Jedi Master to let their
speak to him. Later on Mustafar, Kenobi experiences a vision in which he is attacked by Luke Skywalker, who almost kills him. Kenobi then realizes that putting his guilt on the young Skywalker would turn himself to the dark side of the Force. The duel was intended to mirror the
Star Wars Inside Intel: The Inquisitorius
stated the moon of Nur, where the Inquisitorius maintained their base of operations and was featured in the
, the article was updated to remove this, instead more simply stating the moon was located in the Mustafar system.
Star Wars: Dawn of Rebellion: The Visual Guide
simply states that Nur was a moon in the Mustafar system,
which this article maintains rather than assume further.
Mustafar. From its violent depths I rose, just as my new castle rises as the ultimate testimony to the awesome power of the dark side! —so, what do you think?
Hmph. A little on the nose, is what I think.
" episode, the droid C-3PO recounts the events of
, including the duel on Mustafar: the fight ends with Obi-Wan Kenobi accidentally pushing Anakin Skywalker straight into lava.
In the 2023 non-canonical verbal short "
animated anthology series, Darth Sidious finds his apprentice at his castle on Mustafar on
and complains that he had searched the galaxy for him, and insists that they return to Sidious' shuttle to get on with their work. Vader reluctantly follows his master out of the castle and warns about an alleged "
" who haunted Mustafar's spooky landscape. Although Sidious kept dismissing Vader's warnings, they are frightened by signs of the alleged Sith Witch when they walk into the middle of the woods in a swale. However, the Dark Lords discover that they were merely found by stormtroopers dressed up for Halloween, and Sidious allows each trooper to take one Halloween sweet from him. The Sith then continue walking to their shuttle as the troopers leave, but are spooked by R2-D2 dressed up as a ghost. To their distress, the trio subsequently find a great light in the woods.
," a non-verbal short of the series released on the same day, Vader is annoyed by the clumsiness of one of the
who were cleaning his throne room in his castle. That stormtrooper constructs a personal
, showing off the creation to fellow troopers before Vader. The angered Sith Lord builds his own
and battles the stormtrooper, but they are interrupted by the bounty hunter
. Fett destroys Vader and the trooper's mech suits as he flies through the ceiling of Vader's throne room, and the Dark Lord begins to punish the trooper.
that allows her to travel through portals in time. Her activation of the key leads to Darth Vader from the past attempting to seize the key for himself, and during his lightsaber duel against Skywalker, the two, along with a pair of
, arrive on Mustafar during the duel between Obi-Wan Kenobi and Darth Vader over a river of lava from a portal above. While Rey Skywalker and the Vader in pursuit of her continue their duel over two mining droids, the snowtroopers take the key on a mining platform and attempt to pass it to their commander, but Skywalker intercepts it through the Force. As the group approach a lavafall, Skywalker opens another portal over its crest, and all participants safely enter it and reach a
features Vader's castle on Mustafar, where the Dark Lord boasts of his new sanctum beside Darth Sidious before the pair leave, allowing Vaneé to look after the place in their absence. Later, after the end of the war against the First Order
make an emergency landing of their faulty
in an irontree forest on Mustafar. Stranded, the pair enter Fortress Vader and find it being converted into a Sith-themed luxury resort by
, but they are blocked from doing so by Vaneé; he presents the helmet of Ren, who had been Master of the Knights of Ren before Kylo Ren. Working with the Imperial
, Vaneé wishes to use Dameron to unlock Vader's treasures, based on a
that foretold a fearless stranger would have the strength to do so.
, leads his guests to a repository of Sith artifacts, finding the
and recounting its tale. While repairing the saber, Dean is mesmerized by its power and leads the group to the treasure-filled first
as Vaneé delivers a tale of the Death Star. Vaneé then seizes the
and arms himself and NI-L8 leads an army of
to attack the rest of the group. At the end of a battle against Dameron, Dean, and BB-8 in the forest and lava flow outside the castle, Dean hurls the holocron away; Vaneé jumps after it and is consumed by the lava below. Afterward, Graballa and his henchmen depart to launch a bed-and-breakfast business, while Dameron offers Dean a place in the Resistance as a pilot and to learn about the Force from Rey Skywalker before they leave with BB-8 as well. In the lava, NI-L8 emerges and is joined by Vaneé.
, Mustafar is one of the worlds that players can freely explore and a setting in the story missions for
wishing to make invulnerable obsidian wheelbarrow on the planet
asks the player character to find out where obsidian could be obtained, having been frustrated by the destruction of wheelbarrows during Rey's visit
on the planet Tatooine then suggests that obsidian could be found on Mustafar. On the planet
describes the duel between "Dopi-Won" and "Panakin Slytalker" on an "oven" world to a group of
children as part of a puppet play. The stage's backdrop for the scene is a tapestry that depicts the mining facility on Mustafar.
Star Wars: The Prequel Trilogy – A Graphic Novel
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
Tales of Villainy: Invasion of Echo Base
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Star Wars Adventures: Shadow of Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Very Interesting, As an Astrogation Problem
(Indirectly mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
(Indirectly mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
(Indirectly mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
(Indirectly mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Black Spire: Return to a Shattered Planet
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel
"Liberty on Ryloth" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Children of the Force" Episode Guide - The Clone Wars
"Ghosts of Mortis" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Eminence" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
Helmets: Darth Vader, Master of the Dark Side
Highlights of the Saga: Intrigue on Utapau
Luke Skywalker's Journey to Heroism: The Greatest Story Not Yet Told
"Rebel Resolve" Episode Guide | Star Wars Rebels
"Fire Across the Galaxy" Episode Guide | Star Wars Rebels
Nute Gunray - Trade Federation Viceroy (ROTS)
Passel Argente - Corporate Alliance Magistrate
Starship Fact File: Star Destroyer Deployment
Highlights of the Saga: Duel to the Death
Databank A-Z: Imperial Future Council–Inquisitorius
Guide to the Galaxy: Wildlife of Mustafar
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Databank A-Z: Queen Jamillia–Jedi Temples
Star Wars Rebels: Visual Guide: Epic Battles
Databank A-Z: Petranaki Arena–Proton Torpedoes
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia: Updated and Expanded
Secrets of Spaceflight: Smuggling Bosses
Highlights of the Saga: Joining Phoenix Squadron
Secrets of Spaceflight: Mining the Galaxy
Databank A-Z: Sabe–The Separatist Council
Entertainment Weekly's Ultimate Guide to Rogue One
Star Wars: Rogue One: The Ultimate Visual Guide
"We Set the Bar So High": Doug Chiang on Designing
Databank A-Z: Tusken Raiders–Captain Typho
Droid Directory: 2-1B-series Medical Droids, Part 1
Weapons & Uniforms: Chopper Base — Atollon
Star Wars Super Graphic: A Visual Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
Droid Directory: RO-series Childcare & Nanny Droids
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, Updated and Expanded
Forces of Destiny: Tales of Hope & Courage
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles
Star Wars Lightsabers: A Guide to Weapons of the Force
Solo: A Star Wars Story The Official Guide
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Starfighter Aces: Hera Syndulla — Rebel Cell Leader
Star Wars: Scum and Villainy: Case Files on the Galaxy's Most Notorious
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker – Teaser
Star Wars: How Not to Get Eaten by Ewoks and Other Galactic Survival Skills
Star Wars: Journey to The Rise of Skywalker
Star Wars: The Galactic Explorer's Guide
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker | "Fate" TV Spot
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker | "Secret" TV Spot
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Galactic Guide
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker | #1 Movie in the World!
The Art of Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker
Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge: Traveler's Guide to Batuu
The Star Wars Archives: Episodes I–III, 1999–2005
The Final Order and the Battle of Exegol
Kylo Ren and Other Followers of the Dark Side
Star Wars: The Clone Wars: Character Encyclopedia - Join the Battle!
Darth Maul and Other Followers of the Dark Side
Scarif and Other Planets in the Outer Rim
LEGO Star Wars Terrifying Tales, Tamagotchi R2-D2 Revealed, and More!
Grogu Invades New York, Terrifying Tales with LEGO, and More!
Star Wars Year By Year: A Visual History, New Edition
Star Wars: Character Encyclopedia, Updated and Expanded Edition
Star Wars Droids Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
Obi-Wan Kenobi Date Announce, John Williams Turns 90, and More!
Mustafar and Other Planets in the Outer Rim
10 of Obi-Wan Kenobi's Greatest Moments (So Far)
(version archived on January 20, 2023; content now replaced)
You Can't Escape Poster Posse's Stunning
We Checked Out the Drinks, Easter Eggs, and Galactic View at
Will Point Toward the Future of the Galaxy Far, Far Away in Comics – Exclusive
Marvel Star Wars: Revelations Reveal, Inspiring ILM Legends, and More!
Star Wars: The Secrets of the Bounty Hunters
Forces of Nature: The Wild Spaces and Wilder Creatures of the
SDCC 2023: 10 Reveals from the Lucasfilm Publishing Panel
Master & Apprentice: A Special Look at Ahsoka
Stories to Thrill You This Halloween Season
Star Wars: Dawn of Rebellion: The Visual Guide
Darth Vader Returns to Mustafar in Marvel's
"Imperial March" Begins with a Galaxy of New Toys, Apparel, and More
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
The Acolyte | The Costumes of The Acolyte | Disney+
News and Reveals from New York Comic-Con
NASCAR and Columbia Reveal a New Darth Vader-Inspired Paint Scheme | Star Wars
Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy
Get Your First Look at Marvel's 2025 Free Comic Book Day Titles
Star Wars: Complete Locations, New Edition
Behind Unlimited: Playing With Experience
NYCC 2025: All the News and Reveals from the Lucasfilm Publishing Panel
Star Wars: Galactic Atlas: Updated Edition
Prepare Yourself For Haunted Happenings in
LEGO Star Wars Terrifying Tales | Official Trailer | Disney+
on Crafting a Ghoulactic Halloween Event
13 Hilarious and Horrifying Highlights from
Star Wars: The Galactic Explorer's Guide
Star Wars: Complete Locations, New Edition
Star Wars: The Galactic Explorer's Guide
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, Updated and Expanded
was 24 standard hours, Mustafar's orbital period consisted of 14832 standard hours, or 618 standard days.
Guide to the Galaxy: Wildlife of Mustafar
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, Updated and Expanded
Star Wars Adventures: Shadow of Vader's Castle
Star Wars: Character Encyclopedia, Updated and Expanded Edition
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Secrets of Spaceflight: Mining the Galaxy
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia: Updated and Expanded
, it can additionally be determined that he was reputed to be the last of his kind by 0
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
Star Wars: The High Republic Character Encyclopedia
The High Republic – Shadows of Starlight
The High Republic: Temptation of the Force
and six weeks after the destruction of Starlight Beacon, it must be set in
after the destruction of Starlight Beacon, its events must be set in 228
Star Wars: The Clone Wars: Character Encyclopedia - Join the Battle!
take place more than a year after the duel, in
Droid Directory: RO-series Childcare & Nanny Droids
Star Wars: Dawn of Rebellion: The Visual Guide
Darth Maul and Other Followers of the Dark Side
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
Star Wars Rebels: Visual Guide: Epic Battles
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
. "Part Seven: Dreams and Madness" takes place after the
. Therefore, Seasons One through Three of
SWCA 2022: 20 Highlights from Lucasfilm's Studio Showcase
—the latter of which can also be dated to 9 ABY following the reasoning
Very Interesting, As an Astrogation Problem
Black Spire: Return to a Shattered Planet
Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge: Traveler's Guide to Batuu
takes place directly after the events of
Star Wars: Character Encyclopedia, Updated and Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge: The Official Black Spire Outpost Cookbook
The Making of Star Wars Revenge of the Sith
Forces of Nature: The Wild Spaces and Wilder Creatures of the
Behind the Scenes of Star Wars: Episode III––Revenge of the Sith, and The Making of George Lucas's Empire
"#StarWars - very early Episode 3 concepts for Mustafar, sketched in Corel Painter-"
"One of the first pieces I ever did for Episode 3- here's the page from my old sketchbook where I work some of it out- we were trying a lot of ideas at this early point, the main question being how technological/natural Mustafar was... Thanks for sharing @kershed !!!"
Star Wars Within A Minute: The Making Of Episode III Documentary
Star Wars Year By Year: A Visual History, New Edition
Star Wars: Episode III – Revenge of the Sith (2005), Brett Northcutt
Brett Northcutt | Industrial Light & Magic
"Children of the Force" Episode Featurette
"We Set the Bar So High": Doug Chiang on Designing
"The resemblance between Vader's castle and the Temple of the Kyber on Jedha is deliberate. These are ancient shapes meant to suggest tuning forks 'attuned' to the Force."
Interview Domhnall Gleeson & Richard E. Grant STAR WARS: THE RISE OF SKYWALKER
Rise of Skywalker': The Eye of Webbish Bog Scene Was Filmed—Here's Why It Was Cut
Obi-Wan Kenobi Writer Reveals Commander Cody's Scrapped Role (Exclusive)
(version archived on Janurary 20, 2023; content now replaced)
Quiz: Who Would You Take as an Apprentice?