Parts of this article are no longer up to date. This article needs updating from multiple sources. Click the dropdown below to see the full list.
The High Republic: Temptation of the Force
Star Wars: The Galactic Explorer's Guide
Star Wars: The High Republic: Chronicles of the Jedi
Star Wars Bestiary, Vol. 1: Creatures of the Galaxy
Star Wars: Galactic Atlas: Updated Edition
Please update the article to include missing information, and remove this template when finished.
If I grew up here, I don't think I'd ever leave.
Sidious, Palpatine secretly engineered an
in a bid for power. Ostensibly done in protest over proposed taxation of formerly free
, the Federation's invasion led to an outpouring of support from the Senate for both Palpatine and the newly-elected
and removed the Federation from her world during the
of the Republic, with Amidala eventually taking his place as the planet's
, staying loyal to the Republic during the pan-galactic
of the war's end, Palpatine had amassed considerable power and
, a rebel movement led by Amidala's children,
Despite his origins on the planet, Palpatine did not care at all for his homeworld and, following his
that the Sith Lord had put in place to destroy Imperial worlds should they fail to protect their
, however, Naboo was spared from ruin and went on to become a member of the successor state to the Alliance, the
later, the planet would again fight against tyranny,
The picturesque planet of Naboo was located in the galaxy's Mid Rim region.
Unlike most other worlds, the ancient planet lacked a molten core, and instead comprised a conglomerate of large, rocky bodies that made up a network of tunnels and flooded caves. The native
of Naboo, so deep that they went right through the planet, which they rarely ventured into the core, fearing the ravenous sea beasts which resided
Despite this, certain Gungan navigators utilized time-honored trade routes through the planet's structure, which served as the most expedient avenues to reach other areas of the planet.
, a naturally-occurring energy unique to the planet, and this coupled with its lack of molten core gave Naboo a reputation as an enigma to astrophysicists, who regarded the world's structure as an extremely rare phenomenon in
With its grassy plains and waterfalls, Naboo was known as an idyllic world.
Naboo's surface comprised a vast array of different landscapes, from rolling plains and
caused by the water-filled network of deep-sea tunnels.
The swamps acted as a gateway to the world's seas, where legendary creatures dwelt.
Beside its natural features, Naboo was considered a world of classical beauty due to the aesthetics of its population centers.
was harvested for energy and building material,
and was generally thought to be the key to many of the planet's secrets.
While most of Naboo's land animals were peaceful, as exemplified by the gentle
Gungans were the original inhabitants of Naboo prior to the arrival of offworlders.
The earliest offworlders to arrive were a
who warred against the Gungans. Eventually, the Elders vanished as mysteriously as they arrived, leaving only stone statues behind.
Take a moment and look around this glorious city of yours. It wasn't long ago this was all plasma mines. Naboo has indeed come a long way. But as we chart a bold course for the future, let us never forget our past.
The Naboo were the descendants of human colonists who migrated from Grizmallt.
people had discovered the planet, which they had named
principal deities. Naboo quickly became notorious as a vacation spot and as a private hunting preserve amongst big-game hunters across the Mid Rim, although it would be around a century before permanent
Initially, the Gungans retreated underwater and avoided the colonists
While the Gungans flourished for thousands of years before, this only lasted until around
crash-landed on Naboo and set up a small colony. As they established their own society, they initially kept separate from the Gungans.
establishing their presence on the planet and eventually taking its name for themselves. The
based its epoch around the arrival of Kwilaan.
When the colonists made contact with the Gungans, tensions arose between the two peoples, culminating a
They subsequently resolved to separate and live apart from that point on.
The Naboo colonists later expanded to other uninhabited planets in the
. Naboo imposed a contract on the colonists of these other planets, wherein Naboo would give the new colonies a loan to cover the start-up costs of colonization. In exchange, the colonies became legally obligated to provide Naboo with any supplies it deemed were necessary if called upon in times of emergency. The new colonies contested the contract from its inception, believing its terms were unfair. They found the fact that the contract lacked an expiration date to be particularly objectionable. Under the contract, Naboo took advantage of every other planet in the Chommell sector from time to time.
Gungans no dyin' witout a fight. Wesa warriors.
The Gungans built their underwater capital of Otoh Gunga following a tribal war.
Following the wars with humans, the Gungan tribes engaged in
with each other. The war came to an end due to the actions of
, a Gungan who united the tribes under one banner through diplomatic and military means. Gallo eventually
and the other Gungan holdouts, with a massive Gungan
It is an honor to be here for this momentous occasion. The pride I feel for this planet cannot be put into words. 847 years ago, Naboo joined the Republic. And tonight. we celebrate that union.
The Naboo had achieved a state of peace and prosperity at the end of a prolonged period of brutal conflict.
of humans that inhabited the planet. Eventually, a
managed to end the war, uniting the opposing factions through both force of arms and force of will.
The people of Naboo celebrated this event during the
, under the direction of King Jafan, the
. At the same time, fellow Supreme Chancellor
, which displayed different vistas from various currently-distant worlds on a wall of its library. During a mission to end the
and other sites. The Naboo Palace and the city of
recognized. Asked to attend along with delegates from numerous other worlds by Chancellors Mollo and Greylark, delegates from Naboo, wearing their cultural clothing, arrived on
wedding of Phan-tu Zenn and Xiri A'lbaran
that promised to end the war. At least two Gungans attended the celebration.
Later in the High Republic Era, the former
, was also established at some point and regarded as a much-prized posting for
, was based on Naboo, alongside his husband,
and its subsequent expansions, Naboo was eventually included in the
, establishing the planet as a military base and putting it under
mine shafts, creating a planet-wide blackout. Without energy, two-thirds of the
were left inactive, facilitating the Nihil takeover of the planet. The
remained retrated in their underwater cities, and the
managed to escape into hiding with help from the
Under the supervision of Viess, the Nihil occupation of the planet enacted a widespread forced disarmament, and subsequently took a considerable amount of resources from the richer inhabitants of Naboo as "tribute". Although the quick Nihil victory meant that the occupation on Naboo was less ruthless on the general population than the ones on other planets inside the Occlusion Zone, the initial raid led to some amount of casualties. A joint Jedi-
and as the light of the High Republic had begun to fade,
Naboo and the rest of the Chommel sector were represented in the Galactic Senate of the Republic by Senator
, a longtime ally of the Jedi Order and also someone who enjoyed close ties with Naboo royalty. Queen
, who by that time had been elected Queen, had gifted a belt sash to Yovité by that year. Yovité also donned fabric sourced from a refinery in Theed.
I was not elected to watch my people suffer and die while you discuss this invasion in a committee.
was elected to be the new Monarch of Naboo after Queen
decided to only have a single term. While Sanandrassa favored isolationism, Amidala wanted to promote friendship with other planets in the Chommell sector, leading to her hosting the
, whom she quickly befriended, planning her days with them instead of Panaka.
The capital of Theed fell to the forces of the Trade Federation during the Invasion of Naboo.
In an upsurge of sympathy and solidarity toward the invaded planet, the
Naboo recovered quickly from the invasion under Amidala's remaining years, managing to almost completely restore its harvests and crop yields by the end of her final term. One of Amidala's final projects, which continued under the reign of her successor, was the implementation of an ion pulse in Theed in case of future invasions. The decision to install the pulse, whilst meeting with general approval, was nevertheless controversial as some, such as Quarsh Panaka, favored the idea of more robust and extensive defenses whilst others felt that installing any weapon system was against everything Naboo stood for in terms of peace.
I need you to convince the Senate, or the Jedi Council, or whoever is in charge of this terrible war that we are threatened.
The government of Naboo remained loyal to the Galactic Republic during the Separatist Crisis and the Clone Wars.
Both the Naboo and the Gungans remained loyal to the Republic during the Clone Wars, though many on Naboo were in despair at the idea of a galaxy-wide war. Senator Padmé Amidala and
worked together to represent the interests of the Naboo and Gungans respectively in the Galactic Senate.
Early in the war, Amidala and Skywalker returned to the planet for their
and spent several days on world for a honeymoon.
When a number of new battles, including the
Naboo was put under the protection of several new security measures at the order of Palpatine himself. Amidala wanted to discuss those measures with the Chancellor before learning of the Battle of Teth, which had endangered Skywalker's life and changed her priorities to focusing on the
Amidala and Binks, with the help of the Jedi Order and the Gungan
They managed to prevent Vindi from releasing stockpiles of the
led by Representative Binks were dispatched to the watery planet of
By working together the Naboo and the Gungans prevented a Separatist attack on their shared homeworld.
came under the influence of the pro-Separatist
. Under Loo's control, Lyonie ordered the Gungan Grand Army to march on the Naboo capital of Theed. Their plan was to rendezvous with a Separatist
was foiled by the combined efforts of Senator Amidala, Representative Binks, the Jedi Knight
. However, the Naboo and Gungans were forced to release Grievous after Dooku took Skywalker hostage.
During the Festival of Light, Dooku sent
from Republic captivity. At first, Bane and
were successful in capturing Palpatine. However, they were stopped by one of their fellow bounty hunters,
in disguise. But, Bane planned a diversion in order to lure the Republic forces away while Dooku carried out the kidnapping. This failed, however, when he fought Kenobi and Skywalker.
is heavy on our people, and we carry that shame
Naboo was in a state of mourning for Padmé Amidala, who died following the rise of the Galactic Empire.
, Naboo hosted one of the new regime's military garrisons.
Shortly after the end of the Clone Wars, thousands of citizens gathered in the streets of Theed in order to assist to Amidala's
At that time, Sio Bibble had finally decided to retire from governorship over Naboo, setting the stage for an election that
However, Naboo's internal politics were also interfered with by the new regime; while the people were still permitted to elect their monarchs, those who gained the office had little real power or influence.
The position of governor was also abolished.
Instead, all major decisions regarding Naboo were placed firmly in the hands of the sector's
who was appointed before the election for governor could even happen.
on a Nabooian bridge as an early act of their rebellion.
Though one of the less corrupt Imperial officials, Panaka was
Due to its status as Palpatine's homeworld, Naboo prospered during the
. Its economy and environment were regarded to be far healthier than most worlds which had been subject to Imperial rule.
Nevertheless, the people of Naboo resented the fact that it was their world that brought forth a man like Palpatine. The Empire also demilitarized Naboo and dissolved the
wing. As a result, Naboo lacked any combat-trained
, former handmaiden of Padme Amidala, brought Darth Vader to Naboo in
and his rebel team fought him. The rebels went as far as baiting a Sando aqua monster into fighting the
, attempted to protect Padmé's tomb from Vader, but were killed in the process. The handmaidens gathered for a final stand. They were unable to prevent Darth Vader from breaching the tomb.
…Very simply this, that Naboo represents the
in leading the way to a restoration of the
government, we hope we may rely on Naboo's support, counsel, and aid.
The death of Galactic Emperor Sheev Palpatine was celebrated on his homeworld of Naboo by humans and Gungans alike.
during the Battle of Endor—which resulted in
—spread across the galaxy after the battle, an outpouring of joy
on Naboo, the inhabitants of which considered themselves free at last.
While it quickly became apparent that the war was not over as the Empire survived, even without its Emperor,
Naboo was liberated from Imperial control. Nonetheless, all equipment stored within Palpatine's small countryside retreat was stripped bare by the time it was explored by the
, preventing the government from discovering whatever secrets Palpatine had kept within.
which was in the process of reorganizing into the New Republic.
In the royal palace's throne room, Organa met the then-Queen of Naboo,
, and asked for Naboo's support in the establishment of the New Republic and the restoration of the
. The queen heartily accepted Organa's offer, claiming that the Naboo felt great shame over Palpatine's actions.
Jamming at full power, Captain. Climate disruption array now at twenty percent. We count
class-five hurricanes already, another dozen
I want one hundred percent within eight hours, Lieutenant Gulin. By order of the Emperor…Naboo is to be
Aided by the Rebel Alliance, the Naboo fought to save their world from the Empire during Operation: Cinder.
During the meeting, gigantic storms suddenly began to rage, and Naboo's orbital
were all jammed. The Empire had set up a
, as ordered by the late Emperor Palpatine. Named
, the Empire's plan was to disrupt Naboo's environment and climate, and thus render the planet inhospitable.
and flooding across the world, and many buildings were demolished. Soruna, Organa, and Alliance pilot
—that had been stored by Queen Neeyutnee in the
during the Clone Wars—and go protect Naboo by
, but managed, nonetheless, to knock out all of the satellites. A
soon arrived to take care of the Imperial forces.
With their weapons and vehicles disabled by Theed's ion defense, the Imperials were forced to surrender to the Naboo and their Rebel allies.
Danger Squadron temporarily included former
to assist the three women in the destruction of the satellites. After their destruction, the
was then engaged by Danger Squadron and several
delivered the fatal blow to the hull of the
. The Alliance forces then gathered upon the ground to immobilize remaining Imperials in the final ground assault to try and take control of Theed. Imperial forces were immobilized by the
courtesy of Leia, Del, Shriv and Iden taking the fight from the marketplace, courtyard and all the way to the palace and once they are inside the pulse activates and rendering all of their weapons and vehicles inoperable leading to the surrender of Imperial forces. And Shriv commented that they just won and after all that happened  Iden and Del are formally welcomed by Leia into the New Republic.
Due to the fact that Naboo had been the Emperor's homeworld, the planet became a rallying point for Imperial sympathizers.
to wipe out the New Republic's presence in the
. However, these attempts were successfully foiled by
People of Naboo. This is the Supreme Leader of the First Order. I have commandeered your communications network. I am unimpressed with you. Your focus on events that happened decades ago, your obsession with lineage and superstition…have caused your society to fester. Because you cannot let go…you hold yourself back. Now that will change. All that was will be swept away. Naboo will embrace the future. You have been ruled by queens. You have been ruled by an emperor. Now…I am your king.
represented Naboo in the reconstituted New Republic Senate,
Naboo's skies were being patrolled by Star Destroyers from the First Order as part of its expansive efforts to establish galactic dominance. At some point later, Naboo engaged in
the First Order, simultaneous with other planets such as
leading to the successful overthrow of the entire regime.
You and the Naboo form a symbiont circle. What happens to one of you will affect the other. You must understand this.
The commitment to the defense of Naboo brought its human and Gungan inhabitants together when threatened by an external enemy.
Naboo was inhabited by two societies: an indigenous species of intelligent amphibians called the Gungans and a group of peaceful humans who were referred to as the Naboo.
In the distant past, a cultural misunderstanding resulted in a serious quarrel between the Gungan and the human colonists. Both sides refused to acknowledge their responsibilities in the rift, and the two groups ostracized each other for the longest time. That situation lasted until the Invasion of Naboo by the Trade Federation forced the humans and Gungans to join forces.
Naboo culture fostered the artist in every citizen, encouraging children to become musicians, performers, painters, and similar professions. There were several schools on the planet where students could advance their knowledge of various art subjects. The planet also featured a shipbuilding industry, using ore imported from the nearby planet
Both the Naboo and Gungans had a close relationship with water.
intended to be performed between the betrothed individuals.
After many months of general research into where to shoot,
the real-world shooting locations for Naboo were
, among others. The buildings of Naboo were based on the
, a cathedral turned mosque then turned museum located in
. On the other hand, the architecture of Naboo was inspired by the domed and scalloped roofs of the
The crew hoped to depict Naboo with classical architecture, thereby establishing the planet's scale and giving the idea of a sophisticated society.
The exact number of moons in Naboo is currently unknown. In
mentions "spice miners on the moons of Naboo."
There is also a discrepancy over the names of the three moons:
, states that the three moons of Naboo are
Rori and Onoam have similar descriptions,
but as yet there has been no clarification for the discrepancy.
Tales from the Occlusion Zone: Survivors
The High Republic: Temptation of the Force
The High Republic: The Edge of Balance: Premonition
The High Republic Adventures – Dispatches from the Occlusion Zone
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
War of the Bounty Hunters – Jabba the Hutt
Return of the Jedi: Beware the Power of the Dark Side!
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Victory's Price: An Alphabet Squadron Novel
Chapter 6: From the Desert Comes a Stranger
Join the Resistance: Attack on Starkiller Base
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel
William Shakespeare's The Phantom of Menace: Star Wars Part the First
William Shakespeare's The Clone Army Attacketh: Star Wars Part the Second
William Shakespeare's Tragedy of the Sith's Revenge: Star Wars Part the Third
LEGO Star Wars: Droid Tales Episodes I-III
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
From Trenches to Wrenches: The Roger Story
"Destroy Malevolence" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Bombad Jedi" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Cloak of Darkness" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Trespass" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"The Hidden Enemy" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Blue Shadow Virus" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Mystery of a Thousand Moons" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Children of the Force" Episode Guide - The Clone Wars
"Senate Spy" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
Galactic Backpacking, Part 2: Visiting Real-World Naboo
Databank A-Z: Jar Jar Binks–B'omarr Order
Highlights of the Saga: Birth of an Empire
Nute Gunray - Trade Federation Viceroy (ROTS)
Nute Gunray - Trade Federation Viceroy (TPM)
Supreme Chancellor Palpatine - Galactic Republic
Highlights of the Saga: The Boonta Eve Classic
Databank A-Z: Saw Gerrera–Commander Gree
Weapons & Uniforms: Leaders of the Rebel Alliance
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle of Naboo
Weapons & Uniforms: The Gungan Grand Army
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle of Geonosis
Weapons & Uniforms: The Supreme Chancellor of the Galactic Republic
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Databank A-Z: Queen Jamillia–Jedi Temples
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
Highlights of the Saga: Alderaan Survives!
Weapons & Uniforms: Citizens of Alderaan
Databank A-Z: Petranaki Arena–Proton Torpedoes
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia: Updated and Expanded
Guide to the Galaxy: Orto Plutonia and Pantora
Databank A-Z: Sabe–The Separatist Council
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
Entertainment Weekly's Ultimate Guide to Rogue One
Star Wars: Rogue One: The Ultimate Visual Guide
Droid Directory: R2-series Astromech Droids, Part 1
Databank A-Z: Tusken Raiders–Captain Typho
Highlights of the Saga: Flight from Naboo
Databank A-Z: Tractor Beams–Tri-Fighters
Star Wars Super Graphic: A Visual Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, Updated and Expanded
Databank A-Z: Vibroblades–Cikatro Vizago
Forces of Destiny: Tales of Hope & Courage
Star Wars: Geektionary: The Galaxy from A - Z
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars Universe: Jedi vs. Sith: An Imbalance in the Force
Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles
Star Wars Lightsabers: A Guide to Weapons of the Force
Solo: A Star Wars Story The Official Guide
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Starfighter Aces: Ric Olié — Bravo Leader
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
Naboo Royal N-1 Starfighter Expansion Pack
Naboo Royal N-1 Starfighter Expansion Pack
Anakin Skywalker — Naboo Royal N-1 Starfighter
Naboo Royal N-1 Starfighter Expansion Pack
Naboo Royal N-1 Starfighter Expansion Pack
Dineé Ellberger — Naboo Royal N-1 Starfighter
Naboo Royal N-1 Starfighter Expansion Pack
Naboo Handmaiden — Naboo Royal N-1 Starfighter
Naboo Royal N-1 Starfighter Expansion Pack
Padmé Amidala — Naboo Royal N-1 Starfighter
Naboo Royal N-1 Starfighter Expansion Pack
Star Wars: How Not to Get Eaten by Ewoks and Other Galactic Survival Skills
Star Wars: The Galactic Explorer's Guide
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge: Traveler's Guide to Batuu
Every Ship in the Star Wars Sequel Trilogy
Republic, Rebel, and Resistance Starfighters
The Final Order and the Battle of Exegol
"Bounty Lost" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
Official Trailer | Star Wars Galaxy of Creatures
Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy
Star Wars Droids Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
Mustafar and Other Planets in the Outer Rim
at 20 | Costume Designer Trisha Biggar Reflects on Her Most Challenging Film
A Series of Firsts | Obi-Wan Kenobi | Disney+
Obi-101: Everything You Need to Know About Obi-Wan Kenobi
10 of Obi-Wan Kenobi's Greatest Moments (So Far)
SWCA 2022: 4 Things We Learned From the Attack of the Chords Panel
SWCA 2022: 7 Things We Learned from the Lucasfilm Publishing Behind the Page Panel
We Checked Out the Drinks, Easter Eggs, and Galactic View at
The High Republic at New York Comic Con, Phase II Begins Now, and More!
Star Wars: The High Republic: Chronicles of the Jedi
High Republic Phase II Deep Dive, Star Wars Celebration, and More!
"Metamorphosis" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
Keisha Castle-Hughes on Doctor Emerie Karr and
Bounty Hunting Highlights: 5 of Our Favorite Moments from
StarWars.com Fan Spotlight: Keith Yarde Is a
The Fate of Burryaga Revealed, The High Republic Heads to San Diego Comic-Con, and More!
SDCC 2023: 10 Reveals from the Lucasfilm Publishing Panel
Master & Apprentice: A Special Look at Ahsoka
Star Wars: Dawn of Rebellion: The Visual Guide
Celebrates 25 Years with Return to Theaters
Return of the Jedi Masters Avar Kriss and Elzar Mann in
"A Different Approach" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
25th Anniversary Special #1 – First Look
at 25 | John Knoll Breaks Down 3 Iconic Visual Effects from
Ahmed Best | Star Wars: The Phantom Menace 25th Anniversary
Star Wars: The Phantom Menace | Remastered Trailer
at 25 | Ahmed Best on the Creation and Legacy of Jar Jar Binks
Darth Maul Rises in Premium Collectibles Studio's New
The Acolyte | Jennifer Bryan - The Stranger | Disney+
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
Challenges How We See Some Members of the Jedi
Publishing Program and Other Reveals from the Lucasfilm Panel
The Acolyte | The Costumes of The Acolyte | Disney+
25 Things You Probably Didn't Know About the Making of
at 25 | Skywalker Sound's Matthew Wood Explains Why
Creatures of the Night Scare You the Most?
at 25 | Iain McCaig Talks Darth Maul, Queen Amidala, and working with George Lucas
NASCAR and Columbia Reveal a New Darth Vader-Inspired Paint Scheme
Star Wars Bestiary, Vol. 1: Creatures of the Galaxy
Star Wars: The High Republic: The Lightsaber Collection
Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy
: An Interview with Doug Chiang and Oliver Scholl
Star Wars: Skeleton Crew | Behind the Design | Disney+
Celebration Japan 2025 Art Show - Reveal
Star Wars: Complete Locations, New Edition
Watch The New Trailer For Star Wars Outlaws: A Pirate's Fortune, Releasing May 15
New Droid "Cooki" Makes His Debut on the
The Secrets of Ghorman, Mina-Rau, and More: Creating the Worlds of Andor Season 2 - Updated
Explained: Episodes 10-12 - "Make It Stop", "Who Else Knows?", and "Jedha, Kyber, Erso"
Wookiee Basketball, Kid Han Solo, and a Kenobi Dummy: 20 Fun Facts about
's Stellan Skarsgård and Elizabeth Dulau Break Down Luthen and Kleya
Star Wars: The Acolyte: The Visual Guide
Never-Before-Seen Art Celebrates 20 Years of Lucasfilm Animation at San Diego Comic-Con 2025
SDCC 2025: Highlights from the Lucasfilm Publishing Panel
Video Games There's a Galaxy of Connection
Star Wars: Galactic Atlas: Updated Edition
"The Bounty Hunters" Episode Guide | Star Wars: Visions Volume 3
Star Wars: The Galactic Explorer's Guide
The High Republic: Temptation of the Force
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Star Wars Bestiary, Vol. 1: Creatures of the Galaxy
Guide to the Galaxy: Orto Plutonia and Pantora
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, Updated and Expanded
Star Wars: The Galactic Explorer's Guide
Join the Resistance: Attack on Starkiller Base
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel
Ultimate Factivity Collection: Star Wars
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
"eight-hundred and forty-seven years [after] Naboo joined the Republic." According to
Star Wars: The High Republic Character Encyclopedia
The High Republic: Temptation of the Force
—which depicts the Stormwall's first expansion—takes place immediately following
(2023) 4, Naboo must have been brought into the Occlusion Zone in 228
establishes that Naboo was conquered after it was brought into the Occlusion Zone, it must have occurred that year.
The High Republic: Temptation of the Force
"Lost/Found" Episode Guide | The Acolyte
Star Wars: The Acolyte: The Visual Guide
Boba Fett and Other Characters of the Underworld
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel
In scouting for locations with Rick McCallum, why did you end up picking Italy for part of planet Naboo?
Quiz: Which Droid Are You Taking on Your Next Adventure?
Quiz: Who Would You Take as an Apprentice?
Object Would Make the Perfect Valentine's Day Gift?