This article covers an essential topic and is in need of major additions and/or work.
and complete this article to the highest level of quality before removing this notice.
We, the Rebel Alliance, do therefore in the name—and by the authority—of the free beings of the Galaxy, solemnly publish and declare our intentions:
To fight and oppose you and your forces, by any and all means at our disposal;
To refuse any Imperial law contrary to the rights of free beings;
To bring about your destruction and the destruction of the Galactic Empire;
To make forever free all beings in the galaxy.
To these ends, we pledge our property, our honor, and our lives.
, was a resistance movement to oppose the
. The Alliance was publicly and formally declared with the
, which brought numerous rebel cells together as a common force opposed to the Empire. Indeed, the concept of a "Rebel Alliance" had its roots in smaller movements that had worked to unite disconnected cells, such as a
, who received funding and aid from Mothma. Such early groups and the eventual Alliance came together from a number of unrelated rebel cells, including the
was one of the first cells to join what Mothma began calling "
" before the formal formation of the Alliance to Restore the Republic.
The Alliance and the cells it united were born from the overall discontent within the Empire of those who wished the Galactic Republic restored. Its efforts were by supportive senators in the
such as Mothma, Organa, and later, his daughter
. Its members were citizens of the Empire or defectors from the
, the early rebels were assisted by surviving
As opposed to waging all-out war, the Alliance waged an
against the Empire, establishing small bases across
instead of controlling an entire planet. When the Alliance
, and destroyed the space station in the
, the tide of the war began to turn, and the Rebel threat began to prove a severe thorn in the Empire's side. The Rebellion continued to engage in battles with the Empire in the
, forcing the Alliance to scatter its forces in order to survive.
Eventually, the Alliance prevailed against the Empire and critically damaged it by launching an attack against the
during its construction in what would become the
. Not only did the Alliance manage to destroy the
, and Luke Skywalker redeemed his father,
and continued the rebellion against the shattered Empire, lasting until the
the war and finally overthrowing it by the signing of the
The Separatists have strength in numbers. We're going to show you how to target and destroy them.
Now to be clear, we are not here to fight your war—rather, to show you how to conduct it in the most efficient and successful way possible.
―Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi brief the Onderon rebels
The Onderon rebels, the first of many militias that were created, receive training from the Jedi.
While the Alliance to Restore the Republic was a resistance movement opposed to the tyranny of the
, its roots predated the actual birth of the Empire, when the
, a conflict that pitted the Republic against the
helped create resistance units on Separatist-held worlds as part of a plan proposed by
would coalesce into a single Rebellion with a centralized leadership.
So this is how liberty dies... with thunderous applause.
―Padmé Amidala, to Bail Organa following the declaration of a New Order
Mon Mothma, Bail Organa, and Padmé Amidala (left) were among the first to oppose Sheev Palpatine, even before he became Emperor.
had managed to obtain many emergency powers from the
, which caused certain members of the Chancellor's own
to start to complain about the chief of state's conduct.
, a document that formally expressed its signatories' concerns with Palpatine's rule and called for him to relinquish his emergency powers as soon as possible. Senator
Shortly thereafter, the Clone Wars was brought to an
status, Chancellor Palpatine unilaterally abolished the Republic in front of the whole Senate and anointed himself the
, thus transforming the democratic government into an authoritarian regime, the Galactic Empire. Unbeknownst to most of the galactic community, the self-promoted Emperor Palpatine was in fact the
Sidious, who had masterminded the Clone Wars so that he could gain power and overthrow the Republic. The Emperor immediately started to subvert democracy in
In the immediate aftermath of the Clone Wars and Senator Amidala's death at the hands of her husband, Darth Vader — the identity adopted by Anakin Skywalker when he became Sidious's
— Senators Organa and Mothma started working in secret to overthrow the Empire.
They're not trying to make a difference. They're just trying to strike back.
And I understand that. But if the people who have a beef with the Empire act solely in their own interests, it won't do anybody else any good. In fact, it might make it harder for any kind of real rebellion to flower—
The Clone Wars ended with Chancellor Palpatine declaring himself Emperor of the Galactic Empire.
In the absence of any major opposition, the Galactic Empire thrived during the early days of Palpatine's reign, amassing a vast
and using it to instill fear in the civilian population,
until Palpatine could fully cement his power.
All the same, the reformed Senate, being even less effective than it was during the last years of the Republic, did nothing to restrain that massive military expansion
as its senators, in time, gave into Palpatine's demands time and time again.
Meanwhile, in the deepest secrecy, the Empire worked on the
attempted to re-assert the power of the Senate through the
While the act would pass, Palpatine claimed he had the authority to veto portions of it, curtailing whatever effectiveness it might have had. Mothma responded to the news by threating a prolonged political struggle, but
explained all the ways Palpatine had rigged the political game in his favor and forced Mothma to admit she was not yet ready to wage a war against Palpatine, who had both the love of the populous and the means to win such a struggle. In the wake of the act's failure, Mothma and Organa would meet with the
and established something of an unofficial alliance with the rebel: deciding to work together to overthrow Palpatine, Gerrera promised to provide the basis of a rebel army, Organa set himself and Alderaan up as their alliance's ideological heart, and Mothma, in what she realized was the weakest contribution of the three, promised to continue building up coalitions to oppose the Emperor as their political heart.
Although many people held a grudge against the Empire, few dared to act. Those who did often acted solely in their own interests, which actually made it harder for any kind of real, organized rebellion to appear.
A rare example of organized resistance against the Empire was that of
, which wanted to end the Imperial occupation on the planet
the occupation of Ryloth by the Separatists during the Clone Wars. Over the years, the movement established hidden bases across the
and executed raids against the Imperials.
remained active in the galaxy and continued to fight
with hopes of securing independence from Imperial control.
yet that did little to quell the spirit of independence amongst its people.
rumors swirled that Palpatine was scared about the prospect of planets and whole star systems allying together in the name of overthrowing him. While such a possible rebellion lacked any unifying leaders at that time, Palpatine and his agents were unable to act out in the open because public opinion was still so important to his legitimacy, even if he had the excuse to occupy worlds like Raxus. At that time, a growing number of
wished for true independence instead of remaining under the Imperial flag. To that end, Pantoran Senator
with the former Separatist Senator of Raxus,
, to discuss Palpatine's fears and the prospect of an allied Rebellion. To try and silence a revolution before it began, a
was dispatched to kill Singh, but his efforts were halted by the
, a network of clones who had rebelled against the Empire and hoped to help their brethren.
Another rebel cell emerged one year after the end of the Clone Wars when the Empire decided to severely
for its past ties with the Confederacy of Independent Systems. That murderous operation, spearheaded by
. Teller hoped they were contributing to what would eventually grow into a cause against the Empire. Four years after its formation, the insurgents managed to steal the
of Tarkin, to attack various Imperial targets with information provided to them by an Imperial traitor,
. Teller's insurgents later launched an attack on an Imperial convoy transporting important parts for the Death Star project. Their plans were soon thwarted by Tarkin's timely intervention, which resulted in the killing of every insurgent except Teller.
Early rebellion against the Galactic Empire
There will be times when the struggle seems impossible. I know this already. Alone, unsure, dwarfed by the scale of the enemy. Remember this. Freedom is a pure idea. It occurs spontaneously and without instruction. Random acts of insurrection are occurring constantly throughout the galaxy. There are whole armies, battalions that have no idea that they've already enlisted in the cause. Remember that the frontier of the Rebellion is everywhere. And even the smallest act of insurrection pushes our lines forward.
, a number of rebel cells had formed, operating all across the galaxy as part of an
against growing Imperial oppression, especially in light of the Empire's continuing expansion throughout the
did much of the on-the-ground early work in forming a
The three principle architects of the Rebel Alliance would prove to be Mothma, Organa, and Gerrera,
However, the Alliance might never have been established if not for Rael's efforts,
, indeed, arguing the Alliance owed its existence to him.
that would fall into the larger whole of
With the Empire beginning to take notice of Mothma's banking activities, Rael set up a
the quarterly payroll for the Imperial sector surrounding the
Rael also reasoned such a major strike against the Empire would make the regime lash out, inspiring more people to rise up as they suffered under a sudden burst of Imperial tyranny.
However, the success of the Aldhani mission effectively froze Mothma's bank accounts
thereby leaving Mothma with few ways to even out her accounts before the Empire fully investigated. In the end, the only solution before Mothma was to marry her daughter
. If she went through with the proposal, Sculdun promised to deposit into her account,
thereby covering up the missing funds she had delivered to Rael.
We need to pull together, Saw! Whatever our final version of success looks like, there's no chance any of us can make it real on our own.
While Mothma could find Rael's tactics hard to stomach, particularly his usage of the Aldhani heist to hasten the speed of Imperial oppression in the name of inspiring more people to rebel,
she did reflect in her personal journal that the Rebellion she was helping to form needed to show its teeth, lest Palpatine's military crush it in its infancy.
While she did have hope of a peaceful end to the conflict in the Senate,
she and Bail Organa helped organize paramilitary attacks from the shadows, all while presenting themselves as principled dissenters in public. Furthermore, she knew that the galaxy's assorted rebel cells needed to unify in the name of opposing Palpatine or else each would be hunted down one by one.
Luthen Rael meets with Saw Gerrera to argue that the rebel cells need to band into a unified force.
Rael also met with Saw Gerrera of the Partisans in an effort to convince him to work alongside former Separatist
, arguing that the rebel cells, despite their political differences, needed to join together to become a true threat to the Empire.
. Reasoning that Kreegyr's demise would make the ISB overconfident and protect Rael's agent within the ISB,
, the two reluctantly agreed to sacrifice Kreegyr's forces for the greater good of their war effort.
Shortly afterward, the raid indeed ended in the total destruction of Kreegyr's attack party. Following the
, was also active in the Atrivis sector. After deliberation, they decided to join Mothma, becoming one of the first groups of what Mothma had begun calling "the Alliance."
, which largely fought on the Imperial-controlled Outer Rim planet of
which was a part of the larger rebel network led by Tano and Senator Organa. At that point, members of those cells were not supposed to know they were part of a larger movement known as the rebellion, so if captured, they could not give information on the other rebel cells. The cells were only provided with intelligence on a need-to-know basis by Tano, using the codename "
Due to the increased rebel activities around Lothal, the Imperial Security Bureau dispatched
to hunt down the Spectres. Kallus saw the rebel activities as part of a pattern which could lead to a spark of rebellion.
The Spectres further came to the attention of Organa and received information from Tano as "Fulcrum."
After the Spectres frustrated several Imperial efforts to capture them,
Tarkin visited Lothal and warned the Imperial officials and officers that while the various cells lacked unity, the rebels on Lothal were unique because they had unity, which made them a credible threat to the Empire. Tarkin warned that the failures of Imperial forces on Lothal allowed the Spectres to represent hope, and ordered
to execute two of the incompetent Imperial officers. He warned the others that failure would have consequences.
The Rebellion's existence was finally revealed to the Empire when they
after he and the rest of the Spectres were able to hack and send out a rebellious transmission to Lothal and many surrounding systems. His capture prompted his fellow Spectres to launch a mission to
him from Tarkin's personal Imperial Star Destroyer, the
. In order to save one of their cells and the only other Jedi involved in the movement other than herself, Tano led Phoenix Squadron to assist in their escape. Following the successful rescue, she informed the Spectres that their protocol of secrecy had changed. In response to the transmission sent by the Spectres and the rumors of the rebel action over Mustafar, anti-Imperial unrest began on Lothal and several other worlds. In response, the Emperor dispatched
There comes a time when refusing to stop violence can no longer be called nonviolence. We cease to be objectors and become bystanders. At some point, morality must be wedded to action, or else it's no more than mere… vanity.
, the Spectres were forced to retreat from Lothal and Phoenix Cell was crippled when Vader
. As a result of their encounter with Vader on Lothal, the Spectres decided to permanently join Phoenix Cell.
Despite the attack, the Spectres were able to
Phoenix Cell was also able to acquire a prototype
Working with Rex, the Spectres were able to
The Spectres also prevented members of the
from capturing several Force-sensitive children.
A rebel fleet was constructed over the planet
, daughter of Senator Organa, of a coming Imperial force.
The rebellion gets three Hammerhead corvettes for their cause after suffering losses at Garel.
Later, Phoenix Cell suffered a major blow when the Empire learned they were hiding on the planet
The Phoenix Squadron managed to escape but suffered some losses during the
. After Senator Organa learned of their losses, he sent Leia to
, Phoenix Cell undertook a mission to seek safe passage for the Rebellion through the
, the Spectres managed to kidnap him and force him to meet their demands for safe passage after a second attempt.
were hard at work converting Mon Calamari
Afterward, the Spectres and Cham's Free Ryloth movement joined forces to steal a
The stolen carrier became the new flagship
of Phoenix Squadron. With the help of Chopper and the former Imperial
, Phoenix Squadron established a new base
the in-progress Rebel Alliance was also establishing a base in the
, where Organa and Mothma intended for the revolution to be headquartered in due time.
As a temporary base that ended up being expanded more than originally intended,
however, the Alliance's first headquarters would nonetheless be established through the
Grand Admiral Thrawn was tasked to eliminate the burgeoning rebel threat.
. Nightswan once planned on bringing various rebel and insurgent groups together as an alliance, but, as he had recalled to Thrawn, he stopped because of paranoia, distrust, "squabbling," and pride. Nightswan did not know if any individual would succeed in creating a rebel alliance, simply knowing he was not the man who could.
Grand Admiral Thrawn believed the Empire was facing a galaxy-wide insurgency and studied his enemies' philosophy, art, and history in order to defeat them. In response to the activities of Phoenix Cell in the
enlisted his help in defeating them. Thrawn was not content with destroying Phoenix Squadron but sought to destroy the entire rebel fleet. Consequently, he allowed the squadron to escape with several stolen
The Rebellion also received an unexpected ally in the form of Agent Kallus, a former adversary of Phoenix Cell and the Spectres.
Kallus had undergone a change of heart after befriending
Kallus became the rebel spy known as Fulcrum and informed Phoenix Cell that several
were planning to defect. Kallus also helped the rebel Wren escape with the defecting pilots
massacred the Mandalorian Protectors, Rau finally joined the Rebellion.
After the Phoenix rebels evacuated rebel sympathizers from the planet
The Spectres later undertook a mission with the former and original Governor of Lpthal
, the rebels were helped by Agent Kallus.
dispatched Gerrera and his Partisans on a
species. With the help of the Spectres and Geonosian survivor
, the rebels discovered evidence that the Empire perpetrated genocide against the Geonosians. Although Organa hoped to use the information to raise awareness of Imperial atrocities and to sway more worlds to their cause, the evidence, canisters used in the genocide, was lost when the Spectres and Gerrera were forced to escape, although they did manage to take images of the canisters.
As the Rebellion continued to grow, Gerrera's violent tactics continued to put him at odds with the rest of the Rebels. In time, Mothma requested an official
resolution of Censure Condemning Saw Gerrera of the Partisans
to separate him from their growing alliance.
Thrawn also embarked on an ambitious program to search for Phoenix Squadron's base by dispatching
to sweep the Outer Rim Territories for signs of rebel activity. One unit,
, and AP-5 reprogrammed him into an improvised bomb that was sent back to its base and destroyed one of Thrawn's
. Despite this setback, Thrawn managed to narrow down the search for Chopper Base to 94 systems.
Thrawn also later discovered that Kallus was a rebel
and decided to use him against the Rebellion.
This is Senator Mon Mothma, I have been called a traitor for speaking out against a corrupt Galactic Senate. A Senate manipulated by the sinister tactics of the Emperor. For too long I have watched the heavy hand of the Empire strangle our liberties, stifling our freedoms in the name of ensuring our safety. No longer! Despite Imperial threats, despite the Emperor himself, I have no fear as I take new action. For I am not alone. Beginning today we stand together as allies. I hereby resign from the Senate to fight for you, not from the distant hall of politics but from the front lines. We will not rest until we bring an end to the Empire, until we restore our Republic! Are you with me?
―Mon Mothma to the various rebel cells during the Declaration of the Rebel Alliance
Mon Mothma, Jon Vander, Gold Two, Erskin Semaj, and the Spectres witnessing the birth of the Rebel Alliance.
The Rebel Alliance formally came into existence after Mothma resigned from the Imperial Senate and denounced Emperor Palpatine for his role in the
and her Spectres, Mothma escaped Thrawn's forces by
that was increasingly built up as the Alliance grew.
While Alliance had already established a base on the
that Mothma and Bail Organa intended to become Alliance headquarters, they recognized it was not yet ready
as of 2 BBY. Nonetheless, the makings of the
speech calling for the galaxy to rise up in rebellion against the Empire. Mothma's message was heard by the rebel cells throughout the galaxy including Lothal and Atollon. The
converged above Dantooine, and the cells were
into the Alliance to Restore the Republic, which officially began the
Around the same time as the Alliance's formal formation,
and around that same time, a grouping of
Short Notes on the History of the Rebel Alliance Navy
that the Alliance perhaps did not deserve the Mon Calamari
that joined its ranks, as it failed to carry out significant action against the
, she believed the Alliance's ability to secure these ships and the boon to the fleet they represented was proof of how important it was to win the hearts of the galaxy.
As part of the Attack on Lothal, Syndulla dispatched the droids AP-5 and Chopper along with the former Imperial cadet Wedge Antilles to steal clearance codes from the Imperial Security Bureau
. During the course of the mission, Chopper was
by a group of Imperial slicers and intelligence officers led by
. LT-319 tried to use Chopper to kill the Spectres and find the location of Chopper Base. However, Syndulla managed to reprogram Chopper and transmitted a data surge that destroyed the Imperial surveillance vessel.
Having obtained the clearance codes, the Phoenix Squadron began training for their Attack on Lothal.
was briefly distracted when he departed with Chopper on an
from his arch-nemesis the renegade Sith Lord
. Kenobi told Bridger to return to his place with the Rebellion and defeated Maul in combat.
At some stage of its existence, the Rebel Alliance undertook an
was launched as a joint venture between the Alliance and
You misunderstand, captain. I'm not accepting surrenders at this time. I want you to know failure. Utter defeat. And know that it is I who delivers it crashing down upon you.
As part of the final stage of the Attack on Lothal, General Dodonna and the Massassi Group traveled to Atollon to rendezvous with Phoenix Cell. However, Thrawn's spies reported the trajectory of Dodonna's forces to the Grand Admiral. After exposing Kallus as Fulcrum, Thrawn used the trajectories of Massassi Group and Kallus' Fulcrum transmission to determine the location of Chopper Base and Atollon. Thrawn's
, preventing the rebels from carrying out their attack on Lothal and almost instantly taking
. Trapped in the system, the rebels were forced to attack blockade using a tactic which included bombing runs which would try to break the Imperial positions. Thrawn knew about this and ordered his ships to keep to their positions. He then quickly fragmented
as they attempted to cripple his Star Destroyers. He then counterattacked with his TIE squadrons, destroying several rebel corvettes including the
. Realizing his tactic was hopeless, Commander Sato ordered the fleet to charge the blockade, and the Star Destroyers took out a second Nebulon-B frigate and the
-class gunships during the Battle of Atollon.
Bridger and Chopper managed to escape on the
after Commander Sato sacrificed his life to destroy an Imperial
vessel that was blocking hyperspace jumps. Ezra appealed to Mon Mothma for help, but the rebel leader was unwilling to expose the Alliance's true strength to Thrawn. Mothma agreed that Senator Organa was right when he said that the rebels were not yet ready to enter into open warfare with the Empire. With the Rebel Alliance unwilling to help, Ezra solicited the help of Sabine's
, who destroyed Thrawn's second interdictor cruiser.
As a result, the few surviving rebel forces, under Captain Syndulla and General Dodonna, emerged from the surface taking heavy losses along the way and were able to flee to
To Mothma and other members of the Alliance, the defeat at Atollon was proof that their rebellion was not yet ready for open war. All the same, other actors across the galaxy believed such a conflict had already begun.
As thanks for Clan Wren's aid, rebel forces
—specifically Jarrus, Bridger, and C1-10P—joined Sabine Wren and her Mandalorian Clan in the
This is a time of difficult choices. Sometimes impossible ones.
the Alliance became a full-fledged resistance movement headed by Organa and Mothma,
Now in possession of a respectable starfleet that included
, BTL-A4 Y-wing assault starfighter/bombers, A-wing starfighters, and large ships that included
, EF76 Nebulon-B escort frigate, and various
, the Alliance was finally able to fight the Empire on better terms.
At the time, the Alliance was headquartered on the lush moon of Yavin 4, in an ancient stone structure known as the
Leia, the surrogate daughter of Organa and crown Princess of Alderaan, succeeded her adopted father in the Imperial Senate and was also a secret member of the Alliance.
Prominent Alliance war leaders of the time included General Dodonna and
, realized the full threat of what they called "the Rebellion." Others, like Admiral
, believed in the infallibility of the Empire's might.
The Imperials, in an attempt to avoid dissent and sympathy for the Rebellion amongst loyal Imperial citizens, ensured that, through the use of propaganda, they did not know how large of a threat the Alliance truly was, assuring them that it was merely an unorganized and vengeful terrorist organization.
Your home isn't exactly the place you remember, kid. Better prepare yourself.
After their attempt to attack Lothal ended with the loss at Atollon, the Spectres returned to Lothal to help the Lothal resistance group and Azadi. They got information of Thrawn's newly upgraded TIE/D Defender. Bridger and Wren
the prototype but didn't get far thanks to its kill switch and had to escape with the
. They sent Syndulla back to Alliance High Command to call for an attack on the Imperial Armory Complex of which they accepted. Syndulla got promoted to General and returned with a
and Y-wants piloted by Iron Squadron’s leader and the late Commander Sato’s nephew Captain
, and many others but Thrawn was there and had a trap set for them. One by one they fell, and Syndulla, Mattin, and Daree were the only confirmed survivors. Thrawn sent his assassin
to find them, and he quickly captured Daree and Syndulla.
Shortly after, Bridger, Wren, and Jarrus went to save Syndulla. Jarrus broke into Governor Arihnda Pryce's office and rescued Hera whilst Bridger and Wren, disguised as
, went to find them a way out. Jarrus and Syndulla escaped on a glider to the
where they were met by Bridger and Wren in a
which fired upon the fuel pod. Jarrus sacrificed himself to save the others, and the fuel depot was lost, halting the production of the TIE/D Defender on Lothal.
They've no idea we're coming. They've no reason to expect us. If we can make it to the ground, we'll take the next chance, and the next, on and on until we win, or the chances are spent.
After mainly relying on surgical operations in the pre-open war period,
the Alliance's first major battle with the Empire was on the tropical planet of
, in which the Alliance scored its first large-scale victory in the War. Prior to the battle, the Alliance received stolen intel describing a secret Imperial weapon being construction, which connected to recent
and the ongoing Imperial crackdown on the moon
. The information also suggested the renowned scientist and engineer
Soon after, Alliance Intelligence intercepted information confirming Erso was building an Imperial superweapon capable of destroying entire planets. Alliance leadership sent Galen's daughter, Sergeant
to learn more about her father's involvement. Their subsequent efforts saw the Alliance discover the existence of the Death Star, as well as a fatal flaw in the design placed there by Galen Erso. During the Battle, the Alliance managed to steal the
of the Death Star, which had just been completed after nearly two decades of work, from the Imperial satellite base on Scarif. The plans to the Death Star were then transported to Princess Leia on the
" before the battle was recorded by journalist
and would be used as a rallying cry for the Alliance in propaganda.
Thanks to your courage, we have delivered a telling blow to the Empire with the destruction of their Death Star. But our own casualties were not small.
Following the Battle of Scarif, Princess Leia's ship fell under Imperial attack over Tatooine, and she was captured by Darth Vader, which prevented her from bringing the blueprints to her father back on Alderaan. She still managed to entrust the plans to the
, who escaped the ship in an escape pod and landed on Tatooine below. After Grand Moff Tarkin ordered the
, Leia was rescued from the battle station's jail by the crew of the
, who returned her the two droids. The group—except for Kenobi, who gave his life battling Darth Vader—escaped the Death Star aboard the
and headed for the Alliance headquarters on Yavin 4, where the plans of Empire's superweapon were analyzed.
The Alliance launches its attack run on the Death Star.
Having traced the fleeing rebels, the Empire discovered the location of the Alliance base, and the Death Star closed into Yavin 4. The Alliance then launched its
against the battle station, with Princess Leia monitoring in the command center. Leia’s older twin brother Jedi Lieutenant
joined the mission in his own way, piloting an X-wing under the call sign of
. However, the assault would go bad for the rebels as the stationary defenses and the TIE Fighter defenders would shot down nearly the entire strike force. As the Empire readied to destroy Yavin 4 and the Alliance with a single blow of its superlaser, Captain
unexpectedly saved Skywalker by blasting a group of Imperial
that were giving chase. Skywalker managed to fire a
, destroying the battle station by exploiting its only weakness and killed Governor Tarkin and many of the Empire’s best forces at his hand.
Luke Skywalker and Han Solo were honored by Princess Leia Organa for saving the Alliance in the Battle of Yavin.
In the shadow of Yavin, the Alliance had won its first major tactical victory, but at an enormous cost in lives. In addition to the Alliance pilots who died during the assault, at least millions of
had perished with their planet, Bail Organa among them. After an
during which Princess Leia presented the heroes of the day with
, General Dodonna made it his priority to have Yavin 4
. Now that the Empire knew their location, they had to find a new base of operations as soon as possible.
Darth Vader became obsessed with finding the young rebel who destroyed the Death Star and killed Governor Tarkin and most of the Empire’s best forces right under his nose. Unbeknownst to him, until learning Luke's last name through
, and the rebels at the time, he was in fact the biological father of both Luke and Leia.
Not long after the Battle of Yavin, the Rebel Fleet relocated to the
The Rebellion also spread footage of their victory over the Death Star via the
and the destruction of the battle station was a boon to the rebellion's efforts: with such a major victory secured, the battle proved that victory over the Empire was actually possible.
was lost in a collision at some point later in the war.
was a harrowing event experienced by rebel personnel at one point.
, who the Empire was watching closely for her expert slicing skills. They met with a
, who directed them to Drusil. They extracted the Givin and took her to
, where another one of Sakhet's contacts
. He repaired their ship, whilst they kept one of his employees
from bringing the Empire to them. They managed to contain a
, along with Migg. Then, another employee
mercenary and he killed Nessin before Skywalker and Kelen killed them both. They escaped the
, where Drusil's family were waiting after being extracted by
. However, bounty hunters intercepted them and they crashed into the ocean and swam to the land where they face the many mercenaries. Kelen died in the fight, but Luke reunited Drusil with her family and she promised to return and help them.
Bolstered by the victory at Yavin, the Alliance leaders had thousands of ships and hundreds of battle groups, including
. Many battles broke out and the Alliance gained lots of ground. But nine months in, the Fleet became overextended and a halt was ordered. This was soon followed by a retreat and the forces began evacuating their bases.
It would seem the tide of war has finally turned in our favor. In short, I dare say I have a
Han, Luke, Leia, and R2 enter the factory.
Shortly after their victory at Yavin, the rebels launched over a dozen major attacks against the Empire
as the tide of the war seemed to shift in the Alliance's favor.
. Luke, Princess Leia, R2-D2, and Han went undercover to the factory, while
served as a sniper and C-3PO stayed on the Falcon as their escape pilot.
Despite a run-in with Darth Vader, the Rebels were able to destroy the factory,
striking another major blow against the Empire.
Although the Empire's official explanation was that the destruction of the Death Star and Weapons Factory Alpha were lies spread by rebel propaganda, rumors spread of the rebel victories.
However, during the brief encounter with Vader, he saw Luke's
. He recognized it as his old saber and began his hunt to find the origins of Luke.
Darth Vader had been getting information on the boy who destroyed the Death Star and killed Governor Tarkin and most of the Empire’s best forces, he recently found out his name confirming Luke to be his son. Vader's rival Commander
discovered his location and leaked it to Vader's helper,
. He instantly ran into three X-wing squadrons,
of which he began obliterating, before Luke crashed his X-wing into Vader's
and they both crashed onto the surface. The Alliance forces at the
, then deployed hundreds of troops supported by dozens of tanks and they went hunting Vader. They also deployed the Y-wings of
to attack Vader and he destroyed them by hurling rocks with the Force.
Vader soon found himself surrounded by the many ground forces but did not fear them. He outsmarted them by activating their grenades and scattering them. He then mowed more of them down, whilst deflecting tank shots and taking out the
. Meanwhile, Dr. Aphra had come to Vrogas Vas and captured Skywalker. Organa, Solo, and Chewbacca also arrived and Solo went to save Skywalker again, while Organa took a strike team to find Vader. Whilst Han faced off with Doctor Aphra, Vader took out Organa's squad but let her go to attract more rebels to him. Leia sent the Y-wings of
to bomb the area, but they were soon stopped by Commander Karbin and his forces and Karbin tried to take Luke. Vader stopped Karbin's men and faced off with Karbin. Vader defeated Karbin, whilst Organa, Solo, Skywalker, and Chewie escaped with a captured Dr. Aphra. With the Empire overrunning them, the Alliance forces were forced to retreat as well.
Talrezan Four. Hope Station. Unroola Dawn. All lost while we were escorting the fleet out of the Mid Rim. General Amrashad is dead.
―Micha Evon lists losses the Alliance has suffered
was the Empire pushing the Alliance back from the Mid Rim following their former advancement. Companies such as Twilight Company,
were either defending, distracting or rescuing. It was part of the Alliance's withdrawal from the Mid Rim.
as a part of a distraction for the Alliance Fleet to withdraw from the Mid Rim. During the campaign,
and his squad extracted the defecting Governor
. She offered herself as a necessary asset to the Alliance, as she knew a lot about the inner-workings of the "Imperial war machine."
took an interest in this, but the soldiers weren't having it. One of them,
, took a knife to her holding cell, because he was still grief-stricken after one of her laws had his pet
killed. They then suffered a run-in with an Imperial patrol. But in the
, Chalis gave them valuable intelligence on a distillery of which Namir and his squad destroyed. Twilight Company then suffered three more attacks in the
s hyperdrive was leaving a trail. Chalis arranged a
for them to get supplies. Her plan worked flawlessly, but with the loss of two sergeants,
Meanwhile, the Alliance was taking heavy losses during their withdrawal from the Mid Rim. Whilst the Twenty-First battled on
and Bitter Pill Company lost their transport on a trash heap of a planet, the Alliance lost
Chalis and Captain Evon then got an invite to
with them. Meanwhile, the rest of Twilight Company went to the
, was stationed. Chalis, Evon and the other three got to Echo Base on
, who took them to a strategy conference. The other three did jobs around the Base in the meantime and Namir got into a fight with an
, over the ethics of the Alliance. The strategy conference went as planned, but the alarm soon went off that the Empire had found them.
Your Highness, we must take this last transport. It's our only hope.
Send all troops in sector twelve to the south slope to protect the fighters!
searching the galaxy ended up discovering the Rebels' presence.
, Darth Vader's personal armada, headed for Hoth with a contingent of ground troops, ready to crush the rebellion once and for all. However, due to a mistake by Admiral
, the Alliance forces were warned of the Empire's arrival. The Rebels had time to activate the
protecting Echo Base, rendering orbital bombardment impossible. As the Alliance prepared for evacuation, Imperial troops disembarked on the surface of Hoth, beyond the range of the energy shields. Once there, several legions of
advanced on Echo Base. A squadron of All Terrain Armored Transports under the command of General
was tasked with destroying the massive generators powering the Rebel base's shield.
fell first with Sergeant Hazram Namir, Roja, and Beak being forced to retreat back to the main base to find Captain Micha Evon and Everi Chalis.
Rebel snowspeeders engage the AT-ATs of Blizzard Force during the Battle of Hoth.
Luke, who was promoted to Commander by Mothma, led
General Veers' armored transports. By using a harpoon gun and tow-cable, the Rebels managed to bring down one of the transports, but Skywalker's snowspeeder was shot down. Unlike his gunner,
, the Rogue commander survived the accident. With the help of his
and a grenade, he still managed to destroy another walker. Despite the Rebels' best efforts to delay Veers' armored transports, the Imperial general successfully blew up the protective shield generator, allowing Darth Vader and his men to enter Echo Base. While the Rebel command personnel and material was loaded into transports and whisked away just in time, the unprepared Alliance soldiers engaged the Imperials in conventional warfare. Namir and his two men got back to the main base to find Chalis with and Captain Evon, who was unconscious. They then encountered Darth Vader who killed Captain Evon, Roja, and Beak. Namir and Chalis escaped on a shuttle with Chalis' clearance codes.
Unable to reach a transport, Princess Leia Organa, Han Solo, Chewbacca, and the droid C-3PO took their flight in the
. The Alliance delayed the Imperial troops long enough to get its most important staff off the planet, and its ground-based
temporarily disabled all ships of Death Squadron, preventing them from attacking the escaping transports. All in all, the Empire still won a major victory on Hoth, as the Alliance was routed from its base once again and barely escaped Death Squadron's blockade.
The Imperial victory left the Alliance scattered and General Philap Bygar was killed during or after the battle when running from the Imperials.
Organa, Solo, Chewbacca, and C-3PO were on the run on the
repaired but when the time was right, he betrayed them, handing them over to Darth Vader, who wanted to set a trap for Luke Skywalker. He had Solo frozen in
as Skywalker came to Cloud City with R2-D2. Vader then confronted Skywalker, and after defeating him in a duel, revealed that he was his father. Meanwhile, Calrissian had his security turn on the Empire and Cloud City descended into chaos.
Skywalker ran from Vader and was rescued by the two as they escaped Cloud City with Chewbacca, C-3PO, and R2-D2. Solo was taken to be
by Boba Fett, who had initially tracked them to Bespin.
of the Rebel Fleet came to be based off a
Operation Ringbreaker has been vetted by Alliance Intelligence. Its goal is to shut down the naval shipyards at Kuat.
―Admiral Gial Ackbar in a report to Mon Mothma
Shortly following the Battle of Hoth, the Sixty-First had found itself beheaded with their captain Micha Evon killed on Hoth and the rest of the officers
in the Elochar sector. They were stranded on
, and they needed a purpose, so Chalis and Namir (who took charge) initiated
, which sought to force Imperial redeployments from the shipbuilding world of
, thus allowing the Alliance to assault its ultimate goal. This was led by the Alliance's Sixty-First Mobile Infantry, commonly known as Twilight Company. One of the final planets in the chain before the attack on Kuat itself was the mining world of
mineral processing facility. The facility was quickly overtaken, and victory seemed sure until Twilight Company's ship, the
, was shot down and damaged beyond repair while attempting to pick up the division.
As I recall, Twilight Company already had the situation well in hand.
Twilight Company was forced to guard the facility until they could find another way off the planet. The
and the ground forces advanced on them. They were aided by the local rebel cell led by
, although the tide of the battle was only truly changed when Governor Everi Chalis disabled the
using a shuttle and ion mines. In the following days, an interim government would be installed in Pinyumb, while heavy losses sustained by the Sixty-First would ultimately cancel Operation Ringbreaker, allowing the company to act as a temporary police force for the Sullustan people. Their
had barely survived after returning to help them against the
. Subsequent pirate broadcasts and intercepted Imperial signals indicated further insurrections across the planet, delaying the inevitable Imperial counterattack.
―Leia Organa and General Carlist Rieekan
Rebounding from their losses at Hoth after
, the Rebel Alliance formally revealed its survival by
, which was being broadcast to the entire galaxy. The victory was therefore incredibly public and showcased that the Rebels took care to not hurt civilians.
began to dig for more information. Emperor Palpatine found out about this and sought to set a trap for the Alliance. He let more information be fed more to the
, with many of them dying in order to get it, and hid the fact that the Death Star II was operational. The new information revealed the location of the Death Star II,
, the shield protecting it and the shafts within it big enough for starfighters to pass through to the core.
When Alliance High Command got this information, they launched
in order to distract Imperial forces across the galaxy. This was led by Princess Organa and her strike team.
Meanwhile, the rebels on the MC80 Star Cruiser
, which would reveal Emperor Palpatine's trap if they decrypted it in time, but they also captured Commander
, who let it happen so she could get rid of the message. She broke free, forced her way through the ship and deleted the message making sure no-one in the Alliance could know about the trap. Versio escaped with the help of the other members of Inferno Squad.
Admiral Ackbar is right. The Death Star isn't our only enemy—time is, as well. Our attack must come before the battle station is operational—or all will be lost.
the Alliance to Restore the Republic was determined to deal a fatal blow to Emperor Palpatine's tyranny. The Alliance Fleet rendezvoused near Sullust to plan an attack. Thanks to its Bothan spies and learned Palpatine was overseeing the final construction stages of the new battle station.
The Death Star II in orbit over Endor during the Battle of Endor.
It was decided that a rebel strike team led by Skywalker, Organa, Solo, and Chewbacca would land on Endor in a stolen
, with the mission to deactivate the Death Star's energy defense shield. Little did they know that they fell into a trap. When they reached the shield's bunker, the Imperial Army was waiting for them. In orbit of Endor, the Alliance Fleet was ambushed by a large Imperial armada led by the
that emerged from hyperspace. Unable to attack the Death Star II until its shield was destroyed, the Rebel Fleet focused its attack on the Star Destroyers. Although its starfighters were able to maneuver easily around the Death Star II, they were still vulnerable to the battle station's superlaser, which destroyed the
On Endor, the rebel strike team ended up allying with the native
, who used their knowledge of their homeworld's forests to take the Imperial army by surprise. The strike team was finally able to destroy the shield generator after a lengthy ground battle, allowing its starfleet to attack the Empire's dreaded superweapon. General Calrissian flew the
, and another A-wing pilot. They flew through the shafts and were pursued by several TIEs, which gunned down Keir's X-wing starfighter. Calrissian then ordered the group to split up, and Farrell, Wexley and the other A-wing pilot flew down another shaft to lure TIEs back out. Calrissian and Antilles then made it to the reactor core and destroyed the battle station's power plant before retreating back out as the Death Star began to detonate. During an attack on the
's A-wing was crippled and crashed into the bridge, killing Admiral
and his staff. Having already taken considerable damage from the Alliance's starfighters, the
failed and drifted into the Death Star's gravity well, detonating on impact.
Meanwhile, aboard the station, a blow of an entirely different kind was struck against the Empire. A captive Luke Skywalker, now a JediKnight in his own right, appealed to Vader's paternal love, convincing him to turn on his Master. Vader—once again Anakin Skywalker—seized the Imperial Head of State and hurled him down a shaft to his death, but at the cost of his own life. The Death Star II soon exploded from the damages to its core. With the loss of Emperor Palpatine and his apprentice, the destruction of the Death Star II, and significant losses inflicted on the Imperial Fleet, the Imperials were forced to withdraw. The Empire suffered a decisive defeat, leaving the Rebels to celebrate in victory.
Be patient. Be strong. Fight back where you can. The Imperial war machine falls apart one gear, one gun, one stormtrooper at a time. The New Republic is coming. And we want your help to finish the fight.
In the days following the Battle of Endor, news of the Emperor's death spread to several worlds across the galaxy including Tatooine,
, Bespin, and Coruscant despite many attempts by the Empire to conceal the fact and declare this information to be false. While there was much celebration,
With the Empire in turmoil, the Rebel Alliance launched an
on the far side of Endor. This attack was led by General Solo and uncovered a lot of data and communications on Imperial plans.
The Rebel Alliance was eventually reorganized into the
. The new government, however, still had to contend with Imperial holdouts. But luckily, the Emperor's contingency plan had the Empire thrown into chaos with
One year after the destruction of the second Death Star,
, which saw a Republic victory and the end of the Galactic Civil War.
to eliminate former Imperials that became
. The shock troopers were later assigned peacekeeping roles after the formation of the New Republic.
of the Alliance to Restore the Republic was used in the insignia of the New Republic
, a military force founded by Rebel veteran Leia and made up of several
and Organa that reminded the gathered audience of the sacrifices made by the Rebel Alliance, which were further reinforced by an
her belief that empires required enemies, to give their soldiers targets and a reason to enforce fear. Remarking that Palpatine was very cunning in cultivating enemies in his time as both Supreme Chancellor and Emperor, she suggested that he created the Rebellion to maintain the cycle of violence. When her holocron was later discovered by Luke Skywalker and Leia Organa, they remarked that though the Archivist was incorrect regarding Palpatine being the Alliance's founder, he certainly did use it to his advantage.
Stealing food won't help us win. Killing enemies won't, either. Against might on the scale of the Empire, conventional victory is impossible—when our objectives become purely military, we've already lost the larger fight.
―Captain Micha "Howl" Evon of the Sixty-First Mobile Infantry
The Alliance to Restore the Republic was a military resistance movement, which was headed by the Alliance High Command and dedicated to upholding the ideals of the Old Republic,
served as political High Command, existing separate from the Alliance Military High Command, and represented both civilian and military interests.
It was led by a Chief of State and had six cabinet posts:
The Alliance frequently changed its base of operations, ranging from numerous worlds across the galaxy in order to avoid detection or regroup from an attack by its nemesis, the massive Galactic Empire. A
who sought to maintain friendly relations and procure support from various worlds in the galaxy was maintained.
Despite this, the Alliance had few worlds openly declare their support for the movement, as those few that did found their worlds cordoned behind Imperial blockades.
We fight for a cause, but what we're really fighting for is each other. That's why our pilots fly into fire instead of abandoning a wingman and our commandos stand their ground rather than leave a flank unguarded. It's because they care for each other. We fight for duty, yes. But we also fight because we love each other. And that's something even more powerful.
Members and starfighters of the Rebel Alliance military.
Prior to the Alliance's official founding, the various rebel cells operated their own military forces. As the cells began coordinating, joint military endeavors were often overseen by cell leaders such as Jun Sato of Phoenix Group,
Cham Syndulla of the Free Ryloth movement,
and Ryder Azadi of the Lothal resistance.
Rebel cells received information from "Fulcrum" intelligence operatives
was served by capable military leaders such as Admiral Gial Ackbar, and received intelligence updates through its own intelligence branch known as
It could also receive information through the Bothan spynet, and maintained the Alliance Fleet and
, along with the Rebel Alliance Starfighter Corps.
across the galaxy fought for an end to galactic Imperial rule in units, such as the Sixty-First Mobile Infantry and
, while the Alliance Special Forces was composed of elite commandos of the trooper ranks.
Owing to the larger size of the Imperial war machine, the Alliance relied on
hit-and-run tactics, and surgical strikes
instead of outright engaging in a more typical war for territory.
The Alliance Military will allow anyone in their ranks including imperial defectors, who left the Galactic Empire to join the Rebel Alliance. These individuals often made this choice after witnessing the Empire’s atrocities or experiencing personal betrayals. Imperial defector would greatly benefit the Alliance, such as:
The Alliance Military was controlled by a
, Rebel Alliance Intelligence Service, Rebel Alliance Special Forces,
Before the Empire takes over, we already had these little groups out there… and they need a way to come together. And that's really where your Bail Organas and your Mon Mothmas come in. They're the way that you can galvanize these rebels, and you get a Rebel Alliance.
―Dave Filoni, on how the Onderon rebels help set the stage for the Rebel Alliance
animated television series, stated that he and
intended the Onderon rebels, seen in the
arc, to be the first of many militias that were created by the Jedi during the Clone Wars, militias that would be brought together by characters such as Bail Organa and Mon Mothma to become the Rebel Alliance.
The visual design of the Rebel Alliance in
Forces of Destiny: Daring Adventures: Volume 2
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
The Mighty Chewbacca in the Forest of Fear!
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
Stormtroopers vs. Rebels – Soldiers of the Galactic Empire
A New Hope: The Princess, the Scoundrel, and the Farm Boy
The Adventures of Luke Skywalker, Jedi Knight
Star Wars Treasury: The Original Trilogy
Star Wars: The Original Trilogy – A Graphic Novel
Princess Leia vs. Darth Vader - A Fearless Leader
Chewie vs. Holochess - Let the Wookiee Win
Han Solo – Taking Flight for his Friends
Luke vs. the Death Star - X-wing Assault
Smuggler's Run: A Han Solo & Chewbacca Adventure
Galactic Adventures Storybook Collection
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
The Princess and the Bog, A Twin Tale, Part 1
The Princess and the Bog, A Twin Tale, Part 2
Galactic Adventures Storybook Collection
The Weapon of a Jedi: A Luke Skywalker Adventure
Star Wars Adventures: The Weapon of a Jedi
Choose Your Destiny: A Luke & Leia Adventure
(Indirectly mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
The Empire Strikes Back: So You Want to Be a Jedi?
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Luke vs. Imperial Walkers - Commander on Hoth
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Tales of Villainy: Invasion of Echo Base
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Han Solo vs. the Space Slug - The Escape Artist
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Amara Kel's Rules for TIE Pilot Survival (Probably)
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Luke Skywalker vs. Darth Vader – Join Me
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Moving Target: A Princess Leia Adventure
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Return of the Jedi: Beware the Power of the Dark Side!
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Luke vs. Emperor Palpatine - Rise to Evil
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Star Wars Adventures: Shadow of Vader's Castle
(Indirectly mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Victory's Price: An Alphabet Squadron Novel
Part Eight: The Jedi, the Witch, and the Warlord
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
Tales from a Galaxy Far, Far Away: Aliens: Volume I
Tales from a Galaxy Far, Far Away: Aliens: Volume I
Choose Your Destiny: A Scavenger Mission
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: A Junior Novel
Join the Resistance: Attack on Starkiller Base
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: A Junior Novel
Flight of the Falcon, Part 3: Home Again
Tales from Wild Space: The Flat Mountain of Yavin
Tales from Wild Space: Adventures in Wookiee-Sitting
Tales from Wild Space: Mattis Makes a Stand
Tales from Wild Space: Look Before You Leap
Tales from Wild Space: Family Affair, Part 2
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
LEGO Star Wars: Droid Tales Episodes I-III
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
Rogue One: Recon A Star Wars 360 Experience
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
"Shadow of Malevolence" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
(First identified as Alliance to Restore the Republic)
and More at San Diego Comic-Con 2014 - UPDATED!
Highlights of the Saga: Duel in Cloud City
Weapons & Uniforms: Imperial High Command
UPDATED: Crush the Rebellion or Restore Freedom in
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle of Yavin
Highlights of the Saga: Sabotage Mission
Databank A-Z: Jar Jar Binks–B'omarr Order
Highlights of the Saga: Escape to Tatooine
Highlights of the Saga: Ground Assault on Hoth
Databank A-Z: Hydroid Medusas–Imperial Academies
Weapons & Uniforms: Imperial Dignitaries
Princess Leia Organa - Rebel Leader (ESB)
Princess Leia Organa - Rebel Leader (ROTJ)
Databank A-Z: E-11 Blaster–Cornelius Evazan
Highlights of the Saga: The Death of Jabba the Hutt
Weapons & Uniforms: Jabba's Skiff Guards
Databank A-Z: Saw Gerrera–Commander Gree
Highlights of the Saga: The Capture of the
Weapons & Uniforms: Leaders of the Rebel Alliance
Highlights of the Saga: Assault on Endor
Weapons & Uniforms: Princess Leia Organa
Coming Soon to Your Personal Jedi Archives: Journey to
Databank A-Z: Imperial Future Council–Inquisitorius
Databank A-Z: InterGalactic Banking Clan–Jakku
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Databank A-Z: Queen Jamillia–Jedi Temples
Highlights of the Saga: The Empire Strikes Back!
Highlights of the Saga: The Second Death Star
Databank A-Z: Kyber Crystals–Laser Cannons
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: Incredible Cross-Sections
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
Databank A-Z: Davish Krail–Kuat Drive Yards
Highlights of the Saga: Alderaan Survives!
Weapons & Uniforms: Citizens of Alderaan
Highlights of the Saga: Attack of the Wampa
Databank A-Z: Petranaki Arena–Proton Torpedoes
Databank A-Z: Admiral Wiskovis–The Works
Secrets of Spaceflight: Smuggling Partnerships
Highlights of the Saga: The Raid on Takodana
Highlights of the Saga: Striking at the New Republic
Highlights of the Saga: Joining Phoenix Squadron
Databank A-Z: Sabe–The Separatist Council
Much to Learn You Still Have: 10 Things You Might Not Know About Mon Calamari
Star Wars: X-Wing Deluxe Book and Model Set
Weapons & Uniforms: D'Qar Resistance Base Personnel
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
Much to Learn You Still Have: 7 Things You Might Not Know About Sullustans
Highlights of the Saga: The Hunt for Luke Skywalker
Weapons & Uniforms: Heroes of the Resistance
Entertainment Weekly's Ultimate Guide to Rogue One
Art of Coloring: Rogue One: A Star Wars Story
Star Wars: Rogue One: The Ultimate Visual Guide
Highlights of the Saga: Operation Yellow Moon
Weapons & Uniforms: The Adventures of Nien Nunb
Highlights of the Saga: Finishing the Fight
Building the Galaxy: Designing R2-D2, Part 1
Droid Directory: R2-series Astromech Droids, Part 1
Building the Galaxy: Designing R2-D2, Part 2
Droid Directory: 3PO-series Protocol Droids, Part 1
Building the Galaxy: Motion Control Filming
Droid Directory: R2-series Astromech Droids, Part 2
Building the Galaxy: Filming R2-D2, Part 1
Droid Directory: 3PO-series Protocol Droids, Part 2
Databank A-Z: Tusken Raiders–Captain Typho
Building the Galaxy: Filming R2-D2, Part 2
Droid Directory: 2-1B-series Medical Droids, Part 1
Building the Galaxy: Filming R2-D2, Part 3
Droid Directory: Imperial Mark IV Sentry Droid
Databank A-Z: Trident Assault Ship–Turbolasers
Weapons & Uniforms: Chopper Base — Atollon
Highlights of the Saga: Battle on the Beach
Weapons & Uniforms: Creators of the Death Star
Highlights of the Saga: A Perilous Mission
Highlights of the Saga: Target: The Holy City
Weapons & Uniforms: Saw Gerrera's Partisans
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle of Scarif
Weapons & Uniforms: Rebel Leaders at Yavin 4
Highlights of the Saga: Luke's Journey in the Force
Databank A-Z: Tractor Beams–Tri-Fighters
Star Wars Super Graphic: A Visual Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
Star Wars Forces of Destiny: Meet the Heroes
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle of Scarif
Databank A-Z: VCX-100 Light Freighter–Veers
Weapons & Uniforms: Inhabitants of Jedha
Highlights of the Saga: Liberating Lothal
Weapons & Uniforms: Grand Admiral Thrawn
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle for Jedha
Databank A-Z: Vibroblades–Cikatro Vizago
Highlights of the Saga: Birth of the Blade Wing
Forces of Destiny: Tales of Hope & Courage
Star Wars: Geektionary: The Galaxy from A - Z
Star Wars: A-wing Deluxe Book and 3D Wood Model
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Incredible Cross-Sections
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Ultimate Sticker Collection
Behind the Cameras: How the Death Star Was Created
Behind the Cameras: Evolution of Stormtroopers
Limited Edition Luke Skywalker Commander Expansion
Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles
The Last Jedi: Rose Tico: Resistance Fighter
Creating a Starship Fleet: Ralph McQuarrie — The Man Who Drew
Starfighter Aces: Luke Skywalker — Savior of the Rebel Alliance
Star Wars: Resistance Bomber Book and 3D Wood Model
Solo: A Star Wars Story: Tales from Vandor
Lando Calrissian — Modified YT-1300 Light Freighter
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Star Wars: Scum and Villainy: Case Files on the Galaxy's Most Notorious
Starfighter Aces: CR-978 — Elite But Expendable
Starfighter Aces: K-2SO — Reprogrammed as a Rebel
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia, New Edition
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
Star Wars: How Not to Get Eaten by Ewoks and Other Galactic Survival Skills
75258 Anakin's Podracer - 20th Anniversary Edition
75243 Slave I - 20th Anniversary Edition
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
Rebel Starfighters Owners' Workshop Manual
Echo Base Evacuees — GR-75 Medium Transport
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Galactic Guide
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
"Unfinished Business" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
The Art of Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker
"Old Friends Not Forgotten" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge: Traveler's Guide to Batuu
"Sanctuary" Episode Guide | The Mandalorian
"The Prisoner" Episode Guide | The Mandalorian
Star Wars Complete Vehicles, New Edition
Republic, Rebel, and Resistance Starfighters
The Battle of Hoth and the Second Death Star
The Final Order and the Battle of Exegol
"Return To Kamino" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
Tobias Beckett and Other Characters of the Underworld
Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy
Under the Helmet: The Legacy of Boba Fett
Star Wars Droids Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
#088: Rebel Soldier (Echo Base Battle Gear)
Ahsoka Tano and Other Users of the Force
Diego Luna and Genevieve O'Reilly Take The Stage At SWCA 2022 | Star Wars Celebration Live!
SWCA 2022: 20 Highlights from Lucasfilm's Studio Showcase
SWCA 2022: 7 Things We Learned from the Lucasfilm Publishing Behind the Page Panel
The Story of the Ronin Continues and More from Marvel's September 2022
Luke Skywalker and Leia Organa Talk Family in
Star Wars: The Princess and the Scoundrel
Explore Jedha of the High Republic Era and More from Marvel's October 2022
Comic Hits Shelves, Charles Soule Looks Back
Inside the Lucasfilm Archive: A Brewing Rebellion in the
Costumes Revealed at the Lucasfilm Pavilion
Marvel Star Wars #27, MothMadness, and More!
Actor Genevieve O'Reilly on the Legacy of Mon Mothma
Tales of the Jedi Poster Art, Mon Mothma Arrives in Andor, and More!
Star Wars: The Secrets of the Bounty Hunters
Star Wars Outlaws™ Opens Up a Galaxy of Opportunity
Revealed: Get the First Details on Ubisoft's Open-World
Star Wars Outlaws: Behind The Scenes – Navigating the Underworld
Star Wars Bestiary, Vol. 1: Creatures of the Galaxy
Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy
Behind Unlimited: Lessons and Accomplishments of 2024
AT-AT Walker (All Terrain Armored Transport)
LEGO Star Wars: Build Your Own Adventure
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
Star Wars: Rogue One: The Ultimate Visual Guide
establishes that the Rebel Alliance was formed by rebel cells that were coordinating and established a political and military hierarchy five
. Therefore, this established network must have been formed in 5
"Title and updated release date of my upcoming STAR WARS novel announced at SDCC. THE EDGE OF THE ABYSS takes place a year before Andor S1."
," indicate the episode must take place at least twenty-one
following her capture as depicted in the Season 2 episode "
"Confined" Trivia Guide | Star Wars The Bad Batch
, Omega spends about 164 further days in captivity by the end of "Confined." As such, the events of Season 3 must begin around 18
Star Wars: The Mask of Fear (Reign of the Empire)
Explained: Episodes 10-12 - "Make It Stop", "Who Else Knows?", and "Jedha, Kyber, Erso"
Analyzed: 5 Highlights from Episode 9, "Nobody's Listening!"
#1.14: Inside "Fire Across the Galaxy" | Star Wars Rebels
#3.03: Inside "The Antilles Extraction" | Star Wars Rebels
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Incredible Cross-Sections
Moving Target: A Princess Leia Adventure
The Weapon of a Jedi: A Luke Skywalker Adventure
Star Wars Complete Vehicles, New Edition
The Making of Star Wars: The Definitive Story Behind the Original Film