Parts of this article are no longer up to date. This article needs updating from multiple sources. Click the dropdown below to see the full list.
Choose Your Destiny: A Scavenger Mission
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: A Junior Novel
Black Spire: Return to a Shattered Planet
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
Please update the article to include missing information, and remove this template when finished.
From my point of view, the Jedi are evil!
The neutrality of this article or section is disputed.
This article has been tagged because: {{{1}}}.
This article, or a section of this article, may not be written in the formal tone expected of an encyclopedia entry.
Please improve the article or discuss proposed changes on the
Everything you do, everywhere you go, you have the hope of a galaxy with you.
awakening within her, leading her to seek out
due to her anger as well as the adversarial relationship she had with
, a fallen Jedi who joined the First Order as a
in order to hide their daughter, who inherited Sidious' connection to the Force, from his
. Even after the deaths of her parents, Rey was unaware of her
and was forced to survive on her own in the Jakku
, and combatant in the process. Her isolated life was disrupted shortly before war broke out across
between the First Order and the Resistance. Determined to help the Resistance, Rey gained several new allies including
. In the course of their journey, she discovered her latent
and sought guidance under Luke Skywalker, who taught her the art of the Force despite his decision to end the Jedi legacy. After Skywalker
the Resistance, Rey assumed his mantle as the last Jedi and became the
from being reborn through the resurrected
. It was through Kylo Ren that Rey discovered her origins as Palpatine's granddaughter, and upon confronting the resurrected Emperor in person, she was nearly swayed to the dark side of the Force, thus falling into his trap of transferring his spirit into her, which will allow him to possess her body. However, Rey was saved by Ben Solo after he renounced his dark alter ego. Aided by the
her grandfather, causing Solo to make the ultimate
in order to bring Rey back to life. The two embraced and shared a kiss as Solo peacefully vanished in Rey's arms. Although Solo was the last of the
, Rey assumed the name "Skywalker" to honor their memory and in recognition of her chosen family. Sometime later, the now self-proclaimed Rey Skywalker became a Jedi Master.
We will see each other again. I believe that.
, the Rule of Two mandated that only two
, though its ultimate goal was to create a dyad between two
tried to create a dyad with his apprentice,
, who, in turn, tried to create one with Solo's grandfather,
of searching, the Sith never found a way to form a dyad on their own. Sidious regarded the Rule of Two as a pale imitation and an unworthy but necessary successor to the older, purer doctrine of the dyad that would be ultimately fulfilled by Solo and Rey.
They were filthy junk traders who sold you off for drinking money. They're dead in a pauper's grave in the Jakku desert. You have no place in this story. You come from
―Rey and Kylo Ren, on the former's parents
The offspring of Darth Sidious' cloned son, Rey inherited her grandfather's power in the Force.
. Although Sidious had not anticipated his son's
. As such, Rey was a receptacle strong enough to hold her grandfather's spirit, which was trapped in an imperfect cloned body.
To protect Rey from her grandfather, her parents escaped into hiding, choosing to become ordinary
Rey's parents had a difficult life; they struggled to survive on the
while raising the daughter whom they loved.
Since the Emperor's son and his wife absconded with their child,
endeavored to find the strandcast and his daughter.
Rey's grandfather had foreseen what she had the capability of becoming, recognizing her immense strength in the Force, and that such power was not mere ordinary power. It was his own power. Because of this, Sidious was determined to make certain that one
, Rey would embrace her destiny as a Palpatine, and of course, the heir of his
Ochi discussing his orders to kidnap the young Rey. However, the two never learned the girl's name nor saw the family face-to-face.
Rey was hidden on Jakku by her parents, both of whom died while protecting her from Sidious.
Ultimately, Rey's parents returned to Jakku in Ochi's own ship, the
, and, trusting that he would look out for his self-interest, hired
until they returned for her. Above the planet,
they were captured by Ochi; refusing to give up their daughter's location, they were both killed by the hunter on the Emperor's order.
Rey, deep down, was left with the belief that their bodies were buried in the Jakku desert, in a paupers' grave, and a suspicion that they had sold her for drinking money.
In truth, they were buried by Calrissian and Skywalker on the planet
beads from Plutt in case they were caught,
Ochi never succeeded in finding Rey and died within Pasaana's
Since Rey's parents never returned to end their arrangement with Plutt, he considered Rey in debt to him and required her to work for him to pay it back. With Skywalker and Calrissian unaware of her hiding place,
Rey was forced to grow up alone as a result of her parents'
of isolation while waiting to be reunited with her parents,
having subconsciously suppressed the memory of what she knew to be true—they were no one, and they were dead.
Nevertheless, Rey remained hopeful that she would see them again.
She recalled voices from her childhood, referring to her as "sweetheart" and promising to return for her one day. Rey had believed that they were her parents, though she was not certain if the promise was made by her mother, her father, or both.
Throughout her life on Jakku, she would sometimes see off-worlders in Niima Outpost, a chief trade outpost on the planet, who she thought might have arrived on Jakku accidentally, unaware of the harsh realities of the desert world. Rey wondered if she was left behind under similar circumstances, if her family had come to Jakku by accident and she was left behind as a result of their misfortune.
Whatever the reasons were, she held out hope that her family would return for her one day, though she began to realize that they would never come back. She proved unwilling to admit this even to herself for a long time.
I'm Rey, by the way. I'm a scavenger. Have been since I was kid.
Rey learned to survive on her own by scavenging through the wreckage of a long-ago battle on Jakku.
In order to survive on Jakku, Rey became a
in the employ of Unkar Plutt, trawling through the junk fields of the
. At first, she worked for other scavengers, bringing them the loot she found in crashed
vessels that were downed during the battle. She heard local stories about what happened during the battle: that it was the last stand of the once-powerful Empire during the Galactic Civil War, that the Empire locked onto Republic ships during the fighting and dragged them down to the surface together, and more. The battle had left the ships trapped in the sand in varying conditions, and finding working parts became essential in order to earn
portions, the only thing that was up for trade in Niima Outpost. The trades were made by Plutt, who traded leftover Republic and Imperial rations in exchange for whatever Rey and other scavengers were able to recover. Rey learned that parts that could be repurposed were the most important; anything that could not be put into another ship was worthless to Plutt.
Some of the scavengers that Rey worked for were kind to her, such as
. Others, whose names she refused to speak, were not kind, and even viewed her as their property. As Rey's skills as a scavenger grew, she came to realize that while other scavengers needed her, she did not need them. She struck out on her own, utilizing the skills she had to scavenge and survive, but no one took her seriously at first. She was aided by Plutt himself, who told other scavengers to leave Rey alone and would send his thugs after those who did not. Rey did not want his help, and the help was not out of generosity. Rather, Rey was the best scavenger Plutt had and he wanted to continue utilizing her as a source of acquisitions. Rey gained a reputation in Niima Outpost for using
to defend herself, which also kept most people from bothering her—save for the occasional new scavenger who did not know about her, or were so desperate for supplies that they did not care.
I live in a toppled AT-AT walker in the Goazon. It's a strange place but it's mine.
Rey built a makeshift home in a toppled AT-AT walker, where she would scratch a mark on the wall for each day she lived on Jakku.
At some point in her youth, Rey made her home in a downed Imperial
, left over from the Battle of Jakku. When she first found it, Rey did not believe that she could live there, as the
where the AT-AT was located was a barren wasteland in which nothing seemed to grow. When she inspected the walker, though, she found a small
of sand that had poured into the walker. Rey realized that if such a tiny flower could survive there, so could she, and that life always found a way to survive on Jakku. Rey would go on to collect flowers like that, as a reminder that beauty could be found anywhere, even on Jakku.
Once she settled into the walker, Rey salvaged working parts of the AT-AT for trade. She mostly just used one room in the walker, for a variety of reasons. She would often bring her salvages to the walker before bringing them to Plutt, as Plutt deducted portions one could receive from a salvage if they used his washing and repair stations. The walker also contained scratches she made to mark the passage of time, to remind her how far she had come and to count down the days until her family returned for her. Outside of the walker was where she would go on to keep the
she built for herself, which gave her a degree of independence as she made her way back and forth from the Starship Graveyard.
, which she found while scavenging in the Starship Graveyard. She enjoyed making up stories about Ræh's adventures during the war, which was why Rey made a
out of a flight uniform she found in a cargo container. She often enjoyed wearing the helmet and playing with the doll, pretending she was helping Ræh explore the AT-AT and the sands outside. Together, their pretend adventures saw them find lost Rebels and return them to their ships. When Rey was older, she no longer played with the doll, but kept it and the helmet, which she sometimes wore anyway, to remind her how far she had come on Jakku.
At the end of the day, Rey would dream of a better life offworld, but lived in fear of living out her days on a forlorn backwater planet.
Inside the walker, Rey also had a computer display from an old
BTL-A4 Y-wing assault starfighter/bomber
that she used to learn alien languages, study the schematics of Republic and Imperial starships, and run
. Her ability to understand alien languages, including the
, helped her when off-worlders came to Niima Outpost. Two such off-worlders were
, who regaled her with the stories of the famed Wookiee
. She learned of Chewbacca's exploits, as well as those of his friend and fellow smuggler
. Studying schematics to learn how ships worked was also an important part of her survival on Jakku. She recognized almost all of the Republic and Imperial vessels that could be found in the Graveyard, including what roles they played in combat, the types of weapons they were armed with, their models and classes, and how many crew members each one had. She learned this not just through studying schematics on her computer, but also by climbing through and exploring the ships and tinkering with their systems. This let her know what each part was, what it could do, whether it worked, and, most importantly, whether it would carry any value in Niima Outpost.
Though unaware of her connection to the Force, Rey sensed the fall of Ben Solo across the stars.
Growing up on Jakku meant Rey not only learned how the ships that littered its wastelands worked, but also about the dangers that lurked on Jakku itself. Rey saw firsthand the hardship it could inflict. Rumors of an Imperial base on
once compelled Plutt to mount an expedition there. Knowing her skills as a mechanic, Plutt brought Rey a flyer to fix. She did so by unclogging one of its turbojets and rebuilding the other out of scrap from the front of an air speeder. Plutt and six of his thugs used it to try to find the rumored base, but he only returned with a collection of
—and two of his men were killed. That led other scavengers to avoid Carbon Ridge. The creatures of Jakku were also dangerous. A fellow scavenger named
once accidentally broke open a hatch on a ship beneath a colony of
, ferocious avian creatures with razor-sharp beaks and strong talons. Within ten minutes, Teng was ripped to shreds and Rey watched helplessly as she was unable to do anything to stop the creatures. The Graveyard itself was also a reminder of the realities of war, with bodies and skeletons littering the sands. Rey once discovered a deceased
ejector seat. Rey scavenged his helmet, sidearm, and
before giving the pilot a proper burial.
. Solo's immersion in the dark side was sensed across
, Sidious, and Rey, who still resided on Jakku. Rey was in the desert with Plutt when she felt a cold sensation within her body; unaware of her connection with Solo or the Force, she asked Plutt if he felt it too.
As Solo's training in the dark side under Snoke began and the man took on the name "Kylo Ren," Snoke believed that his apprentice's growing power in the dark side would be matched by someone from the light, with Snoke later stating that Rey filled that role.
I can't move this ship with you here. And Unkar knew that, didn't he?
Rey traveled to Niima Outpost, where she took the job of hauling a pile of scrap heap to Plutt, who offered her ten portions. Plutt reluctantly gave her the coordinates but placed a collateral on Rey's speeder if she were to fail the errand. Rey responded by placing a bet of twenty portions since she was risking her speeder.
Rey traveled on her speeder to the site, which turned out to be a wrecked
lying beside the spacetug. Realizing that Plutt had set her up to fail, Rey tried to get the creature to move. After trying to push it, Rey realized that the happabore was having trouble breathing because something was blocking its nose. Steeling herself, Rey dug into the creature's nose and retrieved a piece of machinery that was obstructing its nasal passage.
After shaking off the happabore's goo, Rey tried to tow the spacetug back to Niima Outpost with her speeder but the machine was too heavy. Fortunately for Rey, the grateful happabore helped her push it back to Niima Outpost where Unkar Plutt angrily gave Rey the 20 portions.
It's a Ghtroc 690. Fully restored, working hyperdrive, everything but the laser cannon and the water tanks. Everything else fully operational, Unkar.
A skilled mechanic, Rey possessed a natural talent for repairing machinery.
At some point, Rey was salvaging a battle cruiser when a sandstorm forced her to retreat to the
, where she decided to wait out the storm by practicing on her flight simulator. The next day, after trading with Plutt for rations at the Concession Stand, she took her speeder out to the Starship Graveyard, where she decided to climb the
, the keel of an Imperial ship that had crashed into what would become the
. From her perch, she spotted a ship that, upon closer inspection, she realized to be a reasonably intact Ghtroc
Deciding to look inside the ship for salvage, she discovered food, and more importantly, that the reactor core was still functioning. Realizing that the whole repaired ship was worth more to Plutt than its salvageable parts, she decided to work on it so she could sell it, discovering panels inside that she could use to hide her ship from other scavengers. As it had become dark outside, Rey opted to spend the night in the ship.
Repairing the ship proved difficult, as it meant using parts she could have traded for food to repair the ship instead, making her go hungry more often than usual. Her decision to not give some parts to Plutt eventually attracted the attention of the scavengers
, who asked her about it. She refused to tell them anything, and they told her that they might not have been the only ones to notice Rey's unusual behavior.
Rey was a gifted pilot, who developed her flying skills with nothing but a flight simulator program.
Ten days later, the duo trailed Rey and discovered what she was working on, and offered to help her repair it in exchange for passage off of Jakku with her once it was finished. After Rey explained that she was going to sell the freighter to Plutt once it was complete, Devi and Strunk brokered a deal with her: they would help her repair the ship, and they would split whatever Plutt gave them.
While Rey was wary of the others at first, she came to think of them as friends as they proved their trustworthiness by keeping watch over the ship at night, and helping to protect it from a group of
. Together the three scavengers restored the ship to working order, and Rey was able to pilot the craft over the desert with the skills she had learned from her flight simulator program. Once the ship was complete, Rey flew it to Niima Outpost with the others. However, as soon as she stepped out of it to barter with Plutt, Devi and Strunk stole the ship and fled the planet, leaving Rey with nothing to show for her work. Later that night, Rey punched the lenses out of a battered stormtrooper helmet before turning back to testing her skills on her flight simulator.
Though raised in the harsh environment of a dismal world, Rey was still willing to help those in need.
Sometime later, Rey had fashioned the lenses from the stormtrooper helmet into a pair of goggles. She used them when she entered a Star Destroyer which was notably in danger of falling apart. After finding a room with some scattered components she was sure would be useful, she noticed a component still attached to the ship. Upon attempting to detach it however, the room and the whole ship began to show signs of stress. She then opted to leave it but was cornered by Teedo who held Rey at gunpoint. He ordered her to turn over her stash, before noticing the valuable component attached to the ship. Rey attempted to warn him off but Teedo was not to be dissuaded. After successfully prying the component from the ship, the room began to destabilize, knocking out Teedo in the process. Rey picked up all of her belongings including the detached component and began to run out. Pulled back by Teedo's sounds of distress however, she quickly ran back, picked him up and proceeded to sprint towards the outside. She made use of a torn piece of the ship to slide her and Teedo away to safety from the collapsing Star Destroyer. Teedo then woke up and gleefully claimed Rey's stash as his own. But Rey demanded it back, pointing out that she had just saved his life and thus was initiating a fair trade. Teedo begrudgingly gave it back, and thus Rey sped away on her speeder.
Off-worlders led by some guy called Zool Zendiat. They blasted the outpost and grabbed Unkar.
Rey scavenged junk and sold it in return for food, eking out a meager living while dreaming of deliverance.
Rey was searching for scrap in an old ship but she only found a couple of comlinks. She then heard a sound and realized she wasn't alone in this ship. Two people surrounded her and demanded that she give them her comlinks. Rey declined and instead attacked the two persons. Rey by mistake then set off a chain reaction and the ship started to blow up. Just as everyone managed to escape, the ship exploded together with the mysterious person's speeder bike. Rey took her speeder away from the ship, leaving the two persons stranded. When she came back to Niima Outpost she realized that something was wrong. She asked Crusher and he revealed that an off-worlder called
and his gang had taken Plutt. Rey asked Constable Zuvio why and he answered that the rumor was that Zendiat was looking for an old
droid that Rey had sold to Plutt, two weeks prior. The
then appeared, stating that he was the new junkboss in Niima Outpost and that his boys were the law now, instead of Zuvio. When
walked past Krynodd, the Gabdorin hit him and said that he needed to show some respect. Rey helped the old man capture his creatures who were running away. As thanks she received a few corn-clusters. Realizing that Krynodd would be even worse than Plutt, she decided that she had to rescue him. She returned to her home and took a look at the head of the J9 droid which she had kept so that she could clean it and sell it later for more portions. She then headed out into the night to find Plutt. When out, she heard
and decided to go there to see if that was the location of Plutt.
Rey found Plutt strapped to the ground, surrounded by Zendiat's gang. She then used one of the comlinks she had brought with her to make the sound of a
. Rey attacked and managed to beat all except Zendiat. She then attempted to remove the restraints holding Plutt. Instead she got an electric shock. Surrounded by Zendiat's gang, Rey pulled out the head of the J9 droid, which had been the very droid that had gotten Plutt captured in the first place. Rey proposed that they let her and Plutt go and she would give them the head. Zendiat then asked why he shouldn't just kill them and take the droid, but Rey then threw the droid's head up in the sky to show him why. In the meantime, she freed Plutt, but he pushed her away and grabbed the droid's head. Plutt then took Rey's corn-clusters and threw them on Zendiat's gang so that the ripper-raptors would attack them. As Rey and Plutt escaped, the scavenger threw the head of the droid back to Zendiat's gang.
Plutt angrily asked why as he had heard that it contained a treasure map but Rey told him that she had already checked its memory and that it was wiped clean. They drove back to Niima Outpost on Rey's speeder and she told Plutt that Krynodd had taken over his business. When arriving, Plutt stormed away without thanking Rey. The following day when Rey woke up, she found a crate with at least 30 portions outside of her home, leading Rey to consider that Plutt was not as rude as she thought.
―Finn and Rey, while escaping from Niima Outpost
Rey's life was changed by a fateful encounter with BB-8, a droid that possessed a fragment of the map to Luke Skywalker.
One of the vessels that Rey scavenged from was the
that crashed after its commanding officer, Captain
, scuttled the ship to prevent it from falling into the hands of the New Republic.
Rey climbed throughout the massive vessel and brought parts back to Niima Outpost, where she cleaned them up and brought them to Plutt. The materials she brought him on this particular day earned her one quarter portion of food, which she brought back to her home. After eating, she heard the noises of an
and rushed to find that the source of the noise,
, had been captured by a Teedo scavenger, also named
. Rey rescued the tiny droid and learned that it was on a classified mission
—it managed to escape the clutches of the
, an attack that Rey had heard rumors of.
Rey repaired BB-8's antenna, and pointed the droids towards Niima Outpost. After some convincing by BB-8, Rey allowed the droid to return home with her for one night, before it went on its way the next morning.
On their way to Rey's home that evening, Rey and BB-8 were attacked by a
, which was hungry and wanted to eat BB-8. Rey saved BB-8 from the worm, made it safely to Rey's, and fed the worm a hunk of scrap.
, where she mentioned that Teedo might be looking for BB-8.
The next morning, Rey woke up screaming after having a nightmare of her parents abandoning her. She went with BB-8 to do some salvaging, where she enjoyed the company of someone she could trust.
After that, Rey and BB-8 set up for Niima Outpost. On their way, they were attacked by three bandits who were attempted to steal BB-8. Rey was able to force two of the bandits to crash into each other on their
, and tricked Teedo into having his bike eaten by a nightwatcher
Rey and BB-8 continued to Niima Outpost, where she handed more salvage material over to Plutt. He offered her one half portion for everything, a collection that Rey reminded him was worth one half portion for each item only a week before. Though Plutt was unmoved, he did offer to give her sixty portions for BB-8. Rey almost accepted the offer, but she soon told Plutt that BB-8 was not for sale. Undeterred, Plutt sent his thugs after Rey to try to take the droid by force—this proved to be useless, however, as Rey made short work of her would be attackers. During the fight, BB-8 caught a glimpse of
who defected from the First Order, wearing the
BB-8 alerted Rey and a brief chase ensued. Rey managed to catch the young man and accused him of thievery. Finn explained that the jacket belonged to Poe Dameron and that he was the one who helped the
, an escape that he believed had cost Dameron his life. He also claimed that he too was a Resistance fighter, sent to help Dameron retrieve a map that would lead to the legendary Jedi Master Luke Skywalker.
Unaware of his role in protecting her from Ochi during her childhood,
Rey has assumed the Jedi was only a myth. Rey accepted Finn's story that he was actually a member of the Resistance, while BB-8 lamented Finn's news of Dameron. The trio was spotted by a small group of stormtroopers who were sent to recover the droid from Jakku. Rey and Finn attempted to
their attackers after being fired upon by
. Rey led Finn and BB-8 towards a shipyard attempting to commandeer a
Attacked by the First Order, Rey was forced to pilot the
, an old starship she considered "garbage."
With no other option, Rey led the two towards an old
, which she described as "garbage," that had not flown for years. None other than the
, the ship had fallen into Unkar Plutt's ownership after being stolen from a number of other owners. Rey took the pilot's seat while Finn manned one of the
. Despite a shaky start, Rey piloted the ship out of the outpost and, on Finn's suggestion, remained at a low altitude in order to confuse the scanners on the TIE fighters. She led the fighters on a chase into the Starship Graveyard, where she was able to use the downed war vessels to her advantage. One TIE fighter crashed after Finn scored a direct hit, while the other followed Rey into the bowels of a
suffered damage and the turret was locked into one position, so, after flying out of the Super Star Destroyer, Rey moved the freighter into position where Finn could fire a direct shot. With the last TIE fighter destroyed, Rey flew the ship off of Jakku and into open space.
I used to wonder that myself. Thought it was a bunch of mumbo-jumbo—magical power holding together good, evil, the dark side and the light. Crazy thing is, it's true. The Force, the Jedi, all of it. It's all true.
After leaving Jakku, Rey encountered Han Solo and Chewbacca, the original owners of the
With the ship in the clear, Rey and Finn left their posts and congratulated one another on their hard-fought escape. They finally introduced themselves, having not learned each other's name in the commotion of escaping the desert world, but their joy soon turned to more urgent matters as the propulsion system began to leak
Rey started working to fix the problem, which risked flooding the ship with
gas and killing them. While working on the propulsion system, Rey asked Finn for the location of the Resistance base. Unknown to her was that he and BB-8, as she worked, argued about revealing the location; Finn did not actually know its location and had to convince BB-8 to share it with Rey. BB-8 ultimately revealed that the base was in the
, so Rey told them she would drop them off before returning to Jakku, much to Finn's annoyance.
Suddenly, the ship began to lose power and the two realized that they were caught in a
was pulled into the cargo bay of a large
which Finn mistook as a First Order ship. The trio hid in a compartment beneath the floor and Rey planned to release the poisonous gas into the ship to kill what she assumed would be stormtroopers, but in reality it was two smugglers, and the original owners of the
. Solo found the three fugitives in the compartment and Rey revealed they were the only ones aboard, and that she was the pilot. Solo asked where they got the ship, and Rey told him that it belonged to Unkar Plutt, who stole it from the
—who, as Solo revealed, stole it from him. It was then that he revealed himself as Han Solo. Rey and Finn realized that meant the ship was the
, the ship that Rey believed had made the
, to which Solo corrected her saying it was only twelve. The two correctly deduced that Solo was indeed the famous smuggler who became a
for the Rebel Alliance during the Galactic Civil War. Solo inspected the ship and talked to Rey about the modifications that Plutt had made on it, including a
on the ignition line, which they both knew put too much stress on the
. Rey also told him about their mission to bring BB-8 to the Resistance, a mission that caught Solo's attention once he realized that the droid carried a map to his old friend and brother-in-law Luke Skywalker.
, two criminal organizations that Solo had swindled into loaning him
. Rey and Finn hid in the corridors beneath the floors as Solo unsuccessfully tried to talk his way out of the situation, and his predicament gave Rey the idea to shut all of the doors between the
smuggler and the two gangs. She accessed the wrong door controls, however, and accidentally
the monstrous rathtars, which ran loose across the ship. As Rey and Finn ran from the beasts, one of them grabbed Finn and carried him away. Rey found a control panel that allowed her to close a door onto the tentacles of the monster, severing the limbs and allowing Finn to escape. They reunited with Solo at the
and escaped onto the ship. With Chewbacca injured in the fight against the gangs, Rey took the co-pilot's chair as Solo prepared the ship for launch. Though Rey questioned him on his ensuing plan, Solo jumped the ship into
of the Guavian Death Gang, who had seen BB-8 and realized Rey and Finn were aboard, then had his men contact the First Order to let them know that the fugitives were aboard the
Rey discovered through Solo that the legends of the Jedi Order, the dark side, and the Force were true.
Rey and Solo contended with even more damage to the ship once they were in hyperspace. There was an electrical overload and a coolant leak, so Rey suggested transferring auxiliary power to the secondary tank, which Solo had also come to the conclusion to do. Finally, Rey bypassed the compressor that Plutt had installed, solving the problem, ending their imminent danger, and impressing Solo. The group gathered in the ship's common area and BB-8 showed Solo the
map fragment that was in the droid's databanks. Solo, who pointed out that the map was incomplete, explained why Skywalker had disappeared in the first place. An apprentice—Ben Solo—turned against the Jedi Master and
. Afterward, Skywalker vanished from the galaxy without a trace. Rumors floated around about where he had gone,
guessed that he went off in search of the
. Rey was surprised to hear that the Jedi were real, but Solo, who had once been skeptical of the existence of the Jedi himself, told her that the stories about the Jedi and the existence of
That lightsaber was Luke's. And his father's before him and now, it calls to you!
, did not plan to bring BB-8 to the Resistance base himself, so he set course for the planet
, where he intended to enlist the help of
, a pirate and collector who had operated a
suddenly exited hyperspace. Rey asked Solo if they scanned for
, to which she remembered that Plutt had been using a new kind of tracking device. She was ordered by Solo to do a check of the ship with Chewie, while he got the hyperdrive back online. Rey ran back into the
and informed Finn and Chewie of the situation. Chewie gave them the idea to look near the active
. Rey thought that was a smart idea since the device would go undetected there, so they all looked in the room where the generator was. Chewie was able to find the tracker beeping behind a panel. Finn immediately grabbed it, much to Rey and Chewie's dismay as the device was rigged to explode. Rey told Chewie to go and throw the explosive out of the
. When Rey told Finn that the bomb would go off in 20
, he ran to inform Han while Rey went to see what Chewie was doing. Chewie threw the bomb out the airlock and Han jumped into hyperspace shortly thereafter. After they all got back into the cockpit, Solo thanked Rey, and she remarked that they made a good team. Han chuckled at the idea and they continued onto Takodana.
As the ship approached Maz's castle, Rey was taken aback by the lush green world
that reminded her of the planets she saw in her dreams as a child,
having never known that there was so much green in the entire galaxy. When they landed, the group exited the ship, where Rey looked out at the stunning vista that stood before her.
When they arrived on Takodana, Solo gifted a blaster to Rey.
, knowing she would be able to defend herself with it, and asked her what her name was. With the two formally introduced, Solo said he was considering bringing on a new crew member. Impressed with Rey's piloting and repair abilities, he said he would consider offering her a job as a
. Rey was flattered by the offer and briefly excited by the prospect, but she turned it down because she had to return to Jakku to wait for her family, claiming that she'd already been away for too long already.
Solo led Rey, Finn, and BB-8 to the castle while Chewbacca stayed behind to watch over the ship. Solo explained that Kanata had the ability and the connections to get BB-8 to the Resistance. Once inside, their arrival prompted the attention of informants for both the First Order and the Resistance, alerting the respective groups that the fugitives were on Takodana. Rey and the others met with the diminutive pirate and told her about the map to Luke Skywalker. Kanata said she would not bring the droid to the Resistance because she believed Solo should, as he had been running from the fight for too long. Rey asked what fight she was referring to, and Kanata told her it was the fight against the dark side of the Force, one that had given rise to the Sith, the Galactic Empire, and ultimately the First Order. To Rey's surprise, Finn told Kanata that they could not win the fight against the First Order. Kanata sensed his fear, and Finn finally said that he could not bring the droid to the Resistance. He left to speak to two pirates,
about exchanging work for passage to the
and, when Rey confronted him, he admitted that he was a former stormtrooper and not a member of the Resistance. She pleaded with him not to go, but he chose to leave the castle and head to the Outer Rim.
Through the Force, Rey saw the destruction of the Jedi Order, an event that caused Luke Skywalker to retreat into exile.
As Finn departed, Rey felt something drawing her towards the lower levels of the castle. She made her way down the steps with BB-8 and found a collection of ancient artifacts. One box in particular called to her, and she opened it to find a
. Upon touching it, she was immediately confronted with a
of events both past and present she did not understand. Rey first found herself in the halls of
before learning Vader was his father. She heard Skywalker screaming in disbelief at the revelation, as well as the words of the late Jedi Master
speaking about the energies of the Force. Rey then saw Skywalker himself kneeling before a burning
, before the vision shifted to one of death: Kylo Ren and the
killing many people. The vision then transported her to Jakku, where Rey saw herself as a young girl screaming for her family to return as they departed in a starship. Finally, she found herself in the middle of a snowy forest, where Ren ignite his lightsaber and stalked towards her. The vision came to an end, she fell to the floor, and she heard the voice of the long-deceased Jedi Master
telling her that these were her first steps.
Rey was left shaken by the vision. Kanata found her scrambling away from the collection room, and Rey asked her what happened. She told the young woman that the lightsaber once belonged to Luke and Anakin Skywalker, and that it was calling out to her. Rey, overwhelmed, told Kanata that she had to return to Jakku, but the old pirate helped Rey finally admit what she knew all along: whoever left her on Jakku was never coming back, however, there was someone who still could. Upon hearing this, Rey replied to her: Luke. Kanata, who was
in her own right despite not being a proper Jedi, tried to guide Rey towards embracing the Force and letting the
guide her, as well as to take the lightsaber. Rey rejected it, however, and said she wanted no part in this cosmic destiny. She instead fled the castle, in tears, running into the heavy woods that stood just outside of it to be alone. BB-8 followed her and Rey told the droid to go back so Solo could help, but it was too late. Rey looked up and saw First Order transports and TIE fighters soaring through the sky.
She's just beginning to test her powers. The longer it takes to find her, the more dangerous she becomes.
Rey was captured by Kylo Ren, the dark apprentice of Supreme Leader Snoke, during the Battle of Takodana.
Rey and BB-8 returned to the castle, where they saw it under
from the First Order. She noticed stormtroopers approaching her position and fired on them, hitting two before running back into the forest. Rey told BB-8 to go on without her so she could fight them off, and she told the droid that she hoped to see it again. Rey continued through the woods until she heard the sound of a lightsaber coming to life. She was soon confronted by Kylo Ren, who used
to deflect every shot she fired at him. After allowing her several shots, Ren used the Force to
Rey and her blaster in place, threatening her with his lightsaber while demanding to know where the droid was. He
her mind with the Force, realizing that she had seen the map and that he would not need the droid—he could instead just interrogate her to find out what she had seen. Ren used the Force to render Rey unconscious and carried her to his
—which had arrived to find BB-8—fended off the TIE fighters.
Ren sensed Rey's loneliness and longing for family; likewise, Rey could sense that Ren was filled with conflict and pain.
—a power it unleashed when Rey was on Takodana, using it to
and deliver a crippling blow to the New Republic's government and
. Rey woke up in a holding cell and found Ren by her side. She asked him what happened to Solo and Finn, though Ren did not know—which he suggested was a sign of relief for her, as he had not heard if they perished. Rey treated the dark warrior with scorn, calling him a "creature in a
," and he removed his mask to reveal that he was a young
man with no disfigurements. He asked about the droid once again and Rey responded only with its technical specifications.
Because she refused to reply, Ren used the Force to access her mind and her memories. Through connecting their minds, Ren unknowingly formed the prophesied dyad in the Force between the two Force-sensitive beings. He saw that she was lonely but also afraid to leave Jakku, and that she saw an island on an ocean in her dreams. He also saw that she was fond of Solo and that she felt like he was the father she never had, though Ren said that he would only leave her disappointed. What Rey did not know was that Ren's true name was Ben Solo, and that he was the son of Solo and General Organa. After more probing, Rey began to use the Force to push back and resist, keeping Ren from seeing any more of her memories. She turned the attack around on him and saw into his mind, finding that he was afraid that he would never be as powerful as his grandfather, Darth Vader. Ren rapidly withdrew, rattled by the experience, and left the holding cell.
Rey acquired several Force abilities, such as mind trick, as a side effect of her connection with Ren.
was left to guard Rey's cell. Testing out her newfound Force abilities, Rey attempted to use a
on the trooper in order to influence him to remove the restraints and leave the cell with the door open. The trooper was confused at first and, after her second attempt, said he would instead tighten the restraints. The third time she tried, however, Rey was successful. The trooper removed the restraints and began to leave the cell. He also dropped his weapon after Rey told him to, allowing her to leave the cell while armed with a
. Rey made her way through the base, while Ren discovered that she was missing and ordered the First Order troops to be on high alert—the longer Rey went undiscovered while testing her abilities, the more powerful and more dangerous she would become to the First Order.
Her intention, ultimately, was to commandeer a ship and escape from Starkiller Base, so she made her way towards a hangar where she found TIE fighters that she could steal. She was approached by several stormtroopers before she could get to the fighters, so she climbed down a chasm in the hangar to hide. Careful not to fall to her death, Rey opened a service hatch, climbed inside, and closed it behind her so she could make her way back through the base.
While climbing along the walls of the base, her path came to cross with the members of the Resistance's
who were also climbing upon the same walls. She quickly nodded to one of the members but ignored further calls from them as she quickly climbed down away from the group.
Rey and Finn witnessed Han Solo's death at the hands of his own son, Kylo Ren.
Deeper into the base, Rey found Solo, Chewbacca, and Finn (who did not flee to the Outer Rim after all). They had arrived on Starkiller Base in order to rescue her and disable the base's shields so Resistance starfighters could
it. Rey embraced Finn when Chewbacca said the rescue was his idea, and she thanked him for coming back for her. With the shields already disabled as a result of Finn and Solo's actions, the group left the base to return to the
, but they saw that the Resistance fighters were being cut to shreds and had been unable to destroy the
, which stored the energy that the weapon drained from
. The group decided to stay behind to help destroy the oscillator.
They split up, Rey and Finn were going to access a terminal to let Solo and Chewie enter the oscillator, while Han and Chewie would fight of troops to get there and plant bombs to destroy the oscillator. Rey and Finn stole a
to get to the terminal, but they were pursued by another snowspeeder with a
firing upon them. Rey initially fired upon them, but then Finn suggested they switch places, so then Rey drove and Finn was able to get a direct shot, eliminating the snowtrooper and allowing the snowspeeder to spin out of control.
Rey and Finn switched places, with Rey asking if he was sure he didn't want her to fly. Finn reassured her that as long as no one was following them, they be fine. Suddenly three more snowspeeders drove up behind them, Rey fired on them once again, but was unable to get a clear shot in. Seeing a forest, Rey directed Finn to drive towards the trees. Finn drove through the forest dodging blaster fire, but they were still unable to shake their pursuers. Rey asked him to switch places with her, to which he obliged. With Rey as pilot, she was able to dodge incoming obstacles and outmaneuver the trailing snowspeeders while Finn was able fire at the snowtroopers, taking them out. All but one last snowspeeder was eliminated, and Rey and Finn were approaching a ravine. Rey told Finn to hold on and she sped up, creating a cloud of snow that blinded the snowtroopers behind them. They made it over the ravine, with the snowtroopers falling out of their snowspeeder before it fell into the ravine. Upon landing, Rey and Finn agreed that she would fly and he would shoot from then on and they continued on to the terminal.
Entering the building, Rey opened the terminal and yanked out a component that opened a door within Starkiller Base. This gave Solo and Chewbacca the opportunity to enter the oscillator and plant charges. Rey and Finn made their way towards their companions and found themselves overlooking a bridge, where Solo—who, along with Chewbacca, had already planted charges—found and confronted his son. Though Solo pleaded with Ren to turn back to the light, the dark warrior stabbed his father through the torso. Rey let out a horrified scream upon witnessing this, but could only watch as the famed smuggler fell to his death in the chasm below. Chewbacca, enraged over the loss of his friend, opened fire on Ren, managing to hit him in the leg, and set off the charges, damaging the oscillator and giving the Resistance the opening it needed to destroy the base.
By embracing the power of the Force, Rey defeated Ren during the Battle of Starkiller Base.
Rey and Finn ran through the snowy forest towards the
, but they were confronted by Ren who told them that they had unfinished business that Solo couldn't save them from. Rey denounced the dark warrior as a monster for his act of patricide and attempted to fire at him with her blaster, but Ren used the Force to toss her against a tree, temporarily knocking her out. Finn, who was given Skywalker's lightsaber by Maz Kanata on Takodana, engaged Ren in a
, but was bested and left critically injured. Seeking the lightsaber for himself, Ren attempted to call the saber through the Force, but it whipped past him, choosing Rey instead. Igniting the saber, Rey engaged Ren in combat and spent part of the duel in retreat, defending herself against Ren's advances. The two locked sabers and Ren told her he could train her in the ways of the Force.
spotted Ren and Rey's duel but, being occupied with the
Rey, remembering what Kanata told her, drew upon the powers of the Force.
Unaware, Rey instead gave in to her raw power, anger
and fury. She moved onto the offensive, viciously delivering several blows against Ren until she finally disarmed him.
Ren realized that Rey had more anger than he, or maybe an emotion that he didn't even recognize anymore.
In doing so, she slashed her blade across his face, ultimately defeating him. While an unidentifiable voice in her mind tempted her to the dark side by arguing it would be easy to kill Ren there and then, she rejected the temptation before
a deep chasm formed between them, born out of the imminent destruction of the planet after the Resistance destroyed the oscillator, so Rey left Ren behind and returned to the injured Finn. Chewbacca soon arrived aboard the
and carried Finn aboard, as Rey followed behind. The ship took off as the ground crumbled beneath it, and the
and the Resistance fighters retreated from Starkiller Base as the planet imploded and became a star from all of the thermal energy the weapon had collected.
I'd like you to tell me what happened. With Han. With Ben.
, where Finn was treated for his wounds. She was greeted at the base by General Organa, and the two embraced in a long hug. The Resistance forces celebrated their victory over the First Order, though Rey was left with a feeling of sadness. The events that had unfolded awakened R2-D2, who had been in low power mode ever since Skywalker disappeared and the droid combined the information contained within his databanks with the map that BB-8 carried to show a completed map to where Skywalker had gone. She also said goodbye to the unconscious Finn, kissing her friend on the forehead and stating that "they would see each other again someday."
Later, Rey sat down and had a conversation with Organa about the latter's husband and son. She told Organa about Solo's confrontation with Ren, and how it ended in an act of patricide. Remembering how Solo neither cried out nor fought back, but only reached out to touch his son's face, Rey wished that Solo had run away instead. Organa, however, was aware that her late husband knew there was a time to run and a time to make a stand.
Rey asked Organa how she led the Resistance when everything seemed hopeless, to which the general replied that even the instinct to run can be used as motivation to keep fighting. Rey felt as though they were isolated in their fight against Ren and the First Order, though Organa assured her that neither of them were alone, and that they were part of a cause much larger than themselves.
Organa told her that she was proud of what Rey was about to do. Rey felt the general's fear, however, knowing that Organa blamed herself for sending her son away to be with her brother only for Ben Solo to turn to the dark side. Nevertheless, Organa had confidence in Rey, believing she would not share in her son's fate. Before parting ways, Organa provided Rey with a beacon in order to find her way back to the Resistance. The two embraced in a long hug, and Rey left to find Skywalker.
As gathered Resistance members watched the
depart with Rey aboard, Organa assured Dameron that they had another hope in addition to her brother.
While in hyperspace, the Falcon shuddered and alarms went off. Rey sassed back at R2 would pointed out the danger of going through uncharted hyperspace. The compressor malfunctioned with Rey noting the temporary nature of her initial solution of bypassing. In the commotion Chewbacca was set on fire. They pulled out of hyperspace, but they needed to find somewhere nearby to get the Falcon fixed, or else they risked the
getting ripped apart in hyperspace. Luckily, R2 found a place close, it was known as the
, and it was a junkyard planet. As they prepared to land on Necropolis, a ship hailed them and told them that they needed a scavenging license. When they landed, they met a large insectoid alien known as
, who was the overseer of Necropolis. Ara-Nea asked if they had come to pick junk, which she morbidly called "the bones of the fallen." Ara-Nea then informed Rey that she had to pay 500 credits if she wished to scavenge, and Chewie and R2 had to stay on the Falcon which had to be clamped. Rey, though reluctant, accepted these terms and went to scavenge alone.
In the junkyard Rey discovered an array of ships, going as far back as the
. However the ships were too valuable to be left in the condition they were for so long. She then heard a rumble, and activated a lightsaber as a
came out of the junk and attacked her. Rey knew she couldn't fend it off alone, so she ran, getting into a
. She used the ship to escape the creature and land back to confront Ara-Nea. She realized that the whole Necropolis was a trap crafted by Ara-Nea to swindle people out of their money, then kill them. Right as a furious Ara-Nea was going to kill her, Rey used her iconic mind trick on Ara-Nea and made the alien surrender to his
workers and be willing to be imprisoned. After completing repairs to the
Rey returned Skywalker's lightsaber to him, only to discover that the last Jedi wanted nothing to do with it or her.
After landing on one of the planet's small islands, Rey ventured throughout
ancient ruins and found the old Jedi Master in seclusion. Skywalker said nothing as Rey arrived with his long-lost lightsaber in her hand
Upon offering Skywalker the saber, Rey was shocked to see him discard the weapon after briefly examining it,
Skywalker immediately left the plateau, with Rey desperately tried to recruit Skywalker to help the remaining members of the Resistance the entire way down, which he blatantly refused to do. After recovering the lightsaber from some
within a shallow bay and learned that he had purposefully stranded himself on the planet. She continued to follow him across the island, despite being ordered to leave. Eventually, she stumbled upon an
from the very beginning of the Jedi Order, claiming the location was familiar to her.
Intrigued, Skywalker asked Rey to elaborate, but she continued to press him to come out of hiding and help fight the First Order. Skywalker once more refused, explaining that he did not come to the planet to hide but to die where the Jedi Order first started. Later, when Skywalker arrived at the
, Rey and Chewbacca informed him that Han Solo had been murdered, shocking Skywalker. Afterward, the old Jedi Master pressed Rey for her true motives for coming to Ahch-To. Rey explained that she had a power inside of her that she did not understand and was frightened of; she also sought a mentor to help her discover her place in the galaxy. That night, Rey woke to see Skywalker staring at her; he agreed to give Rey no more than three lessons of the Jedi Order and that they would start at dawn.
It's a power that Jedi have that lets them control people… and make things float.
Impressive. Every word in that sentence was wrong.
Skywalker reluctantly agreed to train Rey, but the scavenger's raw power reminded him of another Force prodigy—his nephew, Kylo Ren.
On the first day of her training with Skywalker, Rey awoke to find Kylo Ren sitting across from her.
She instinctively aimed her blaster at him and fired, only to blow a hole through her
. She could not harm him, yet neither could Ren use his powers to reach into her mind due to the actual distance between them. Rey was both terrified and infuriated to see the dark warlord, but decided to keep this new development between them from Skywalker, fearing that she would lose the Jedi Master's trust if he mistook her and Ren's newfound
She followed him to the first Jedi Temple where he described the Force as an energy that bound everything together, including the light and the darkness. He asked her to sit on a rock overlooking the sea. After some miscommunication, Rey reached out into the Force with her senses and felt drawn to a cavern immersed in dark side energy. The ground around her cracked and she was thrown to the ground.
Having been effortlessly drawn to the darkness despite Skywalker's warnings, Skywalker backed away in fear as Rey's raw strength in the Force reminded him of another gifted prodigy—his nephew and fallen apprentice, Ben Solo.
At the same time, Rey sensed nothing from the Jedi exile and came to realize that Skywalker had
, but porgs entered along with them. A porg stole Rey's
without Rey noticing. She called for Chewie, thinking he had stolen it. Eventually, the two notice the porg passengers and allow them to make a home on the
Sometime later, when it started raining on Temple Island, Rey checked up on Chewie, concerned that they still couldn't reach the Resistance. She made sure to remind Chewie to ask about about Finn. Leaving the Falcon, Rey felt Ren's presence once again, asking why they were being connected. Rey barked back calling him a murderous snake. He asked if she knew what happened between him and Skywalker, to which she replied that she knew enough. Ren looked into her mind and commented that she had the same look in her eye that she had during their fight in the forest, when she called him a monster. She reaffirmed her statement, and Ren agreed. Blinking she found herself alone once more facing the crashing ocean spray.
Rey trained on her own for a time, honing her ability to use telekinesis and wield a lightsaber.
She continued training on her own, lifting rocks on top of other rocks, but struggling with a larger one. She was then started by a noise, a porg had activated Luke's lightsaber and ran off with it. She chased after the porgs, cornering them on a cliff's edge. The porgs started to jump into the water, and Rey pulled out her hands to try and stop the one with the lightsaber from jumping. She was able to use the force to levitate the porg to her and get the lightsaber back. She put the porg back down, amazed at her new ability. However, all the porgs that had jumped into the water reemerged; they too wanted to be lifted by Rey. She laughed and told them they'd all get a turn.
Later, Rey trained her combat abilities using her quarterstaff and a rock. She then took out Luke's lightsaber and trained with it instead. With Skywalker watching, she danced the saber around the rock before cutting clean through it. She noticed Skywalker watching and followed him to the first Jedi temple. For her next lesson, Rey was made to listen to Skywalker's interpretation of the history of the Jedi Order, which he saw as an example of hubris and failure. He further credited his former mentor, Obi-Wan Kenobi, as the Jedi Master responsible for the training of Darth Vader and also blamed the Jedi for failing to stop
' rise to power. In spite of his arguments, Rey was adamant that the return of the Jedi Order was the galaxy's last hope against the rising power of the First Order. She also countered Skywalker's views by exclaiming how it was Skywalker himself who saw the light in Vader and fought to redeem him. Yet despite her assertions to the contrary, Skywalker felt responsible for his nephew's fall to the dark side, lamenting how he had once hoped to pass on his lessons to Solo and a new generation of Jedi. It was then that Rey learned about the night of Solo's betrayal as explained from Skywalker's point of view.
Rey disturbed and then fought a pallaskean, a giant aquatic monster.
Sometime later, Rey used the Force to hold rocks in place around her; she expressed annoyance at the task. Skywalker responded by saying it was for something bigger. Rey then acted aggressively, using her Force powers to levitate two of the Caretakers. Skywalker told her that was enough, and she gently put them down, apologizing. Skywalker told her the training can't be rushed, and Rey stormed off, telling the Jedi Master that she thought he would be different. She then used the Force to lift a large rock; in doing so, she accidentally disturbed the nest of a
. It started to attack Skywalker and then Chewie, so Rey used the force and her lightsaber to protect them. She inadvertently caused a landslide that made Chewie jump to protect some porgs. While they were in his hands, Rey noticed a pallaskean baby in one of the porg's mouths. She returned the baby to its nest and knew she had to re-cover it. She distracted it while Skywalker and Chewbacca pushed the rock back into place over the eggs. Rey then replied that she would learn the lesson about rushing off, and that Luke Skywalker still dashed into danger to save his friends.
In failing to discover the identities of her parents, Rey was left feeling more alone than ever.
As her training with Skywalker continued,
and resulted in more frequent interactions between them.
At first, Rey was inconvenienced by the fact that she was bonded with a man whom she regarded as a murderer and a monster.
To her surprise, however, Ren no longer tried to hide his feelings of pain
At one point she inquired—while distracted by the sight of Ren stripped to the waist—as to how he could kill his own father, to which Ren replied by comparing Rey's experience with abandonment to his own. His knowledge of Rey's parents confounded her, as well as reminded her that the first contact between their minds had allowed them to access each other's memories. Ren then took the opportunity to share his recollection of the night he destroyed his uncle's temple, revealing to Rey that Skywalker had made an attempt on his life while he slept. She wanted to believe that Ren was lying, but her feelings told her that he was telling the truth.
Determined to see her parents once again after so many years, Rey followed the pull to the dark side which led her to a
filled with numerous mirror versions of herself. Staring into a clouded mirror of polished stone, she beseeched the Force to reveal her parents but was only met by her own reflection. Having failed to find the answers she sought, either with her parents or Skywalker, Rey began to despair as years of isolation began to weigh upon her. As a result, she turned to the one person whom she felt could relate to her sense of solitude and loss: Kylo Ren. The dark warrior listened intently as Rey recalled her experience in the
, and he insisted she was not alone despite her sense of loneliness. Rey returned his gesture, in kind, and came to hope that it was not too late for him to return to the light.
Disillusioned by Skywalker's rejection of the Jedi legacy, Rey turned to Kylo Ren, with whom she could communicate across the stars.
By then, their bond had reached an unprecedented level in strength and raw power
to the extent that Rey compared it to touching a live wire. She tentatively raised her hand to touch him, although she expected their hands to simply pass through each other. When their fingers actually touched, Rey gasped and grasped Ren's hand. At that moment, however, Skywalker—now reconnected with the Force and planning to return with her—witnessed their bond with his own eyes and interrupted the connection,
thinking that they were in league. Luke had gestured at the walls and the ceiling of the hut, and all the stone blocks were shot outward
from the hut's center, scattering them around the bench.
Having decided that Rey could not be trusted anymore, Skywalker ordered her to leave the planet.
Confronting the Jedi Master, Rey demanded to know if he tried to murder Ren. The two fought until Skywalker admitted that he had contemplated killing his nephew after sensing the darkness within him. Unlike Skywalker, Rey did not believe that Ren was fully committed to the dark side as there was still much conflict within him. She therefore set out to confront him, in spite of Skywalker's warnings, under the belief that Ben Solo's redemption was the key to saving the galaxy.
Unknown to Skywalker, Rey took the sacred Jedi texts with her aboard the
before leaving Ahch-To. Upon returning to the beleaguered Resistance fleet, Rey ordered Chewbacca to launch her from an escape pod toward
Rey. I want you to join me. We can rule together and bring a new order to the galaxy.
Don't do this, Ben. Please don't go this way.
Sensing the conflict within Ren, Rey beseeched the dark apprentice to heed the call to the light.
As they approached Snoke's throne room, Rey reminded Ren that he still had a chance to redeem himself. Snoke welcomed Rey and removed her handcuffs. He then Force-pulled her lightsaber to him and set it on the arm of his chair. Snoke gleefully remarked on the former scavenger and used the Force to pull her towards him, claiming he had created the Force link between Rey and Ren in order to find Luke Skywalker. When Snoke directly pried her for Skywalker's location, Rey boldly refused and tried to summon her lightsaber. Instead, Snoke merely redirected the weapon, hitting her in the back of the head.
Snoke was amused with Rey's spunk and brought her before a holo-projector showing the remaining members of the Resistance being destroyed and vowed she would join them. Rather than lose hope, however, the sight drove Rey to summon Ren's lightsaber and defiantly ignite it to challenge Snoke once more, promptly earning the Supreme Leader's respect. Complimenting her for her courage, Snoke finally acknowledged her as a genuine threat to his reign. Restraining Rey once more, Snoke returned Ren's lightsaber to him and ordered him to execute her, confident his apprentice would do so. Instead, Ren subtly used the Force to turn Rey's lightsaber and activated it, carving Snoke in two. Freed from the Supreme Leader's control and with her saber back in hand, Rey suddenly found herself in a temporary truce with Ren as they engaged and killed all the
Ren indeed turned against his master, killing Snoke and standing with Rey against the vengeance of the Praetorian Guards.
With Snoke's personal guards dead, Ren offered Rey the chance to join him and "let old things die" and bring a new order to the galaxy. But when she pleaded with him to join the Resistance, Ren revealed what he thought was the truth about her parents; they were both junk dealers who traded her away for money and died on Jakku, buried in an unmarked grave. Ren once more offered her a place by his side to reshape the galaxy in their image. As on Starkiller Base, Rey once again refused and attempted to pull her lightsaber back to her. The pressure of the Force from both users proved to be too much and split the weapon in two, knocking them unconscious. The first to regain consciousness, Rey recovered both halves of the lightsaber.
Before she left the bridge, she looked over at the unconscious form of Ren and briefly considered killing him with his own lightsaber. Ultimately, Rey decided that it was not her place to take Ren's life and that the Force would ultimately decide his fate. She then flew away on
, using the craft's low profile and countermeasures to avoid detection.
Almost immediately after setting the shuttle's autopilot, Rey blacked out. Sometime later, a voice from her past made its presence felt in a dream, reiterating its plea for her to stay and its promise of how they would one day come back to return for her. Upon hearing those words, Rey awoke, finding her shuttle drifting among the ruins of the First Order fleet. Within minutes she was in contact with the
, who soon docked with her ship, allowing Rey to escape and reunite with Chewbacca and R2-D2 aboard the
, whilst leaving Snoke's escape shuttle adrift.
During the Battle of Crait, Rey rescued the Resistance from the forces of Supreme Leader Kylo Ren.
From there, she regrouped with the Resistance fighters on the nearby planet
. They arrived right as the Resistance was taking heavy losses from the
turrets, Chewbacca was able to lure the attacking TIE Fighters away from the battle through the planet's crystallized caverns.
Despite Rey's successful diversion of the First Order's air support, the Resistance was still ultimately pushed back by the Order's sheer firepower. As Skywalker delayed the First Order's final assault via a
, the Resistance sought to escape through a network of tunnels behind their base.
Seeing Rey disheartened by their losses on Crait, Leia Organa reassured her that they would succeed in starting a rebellion.
Following Organa's two-way beacon, Rey and Chewbacca landed near a back entrance to the old Rebel base covered with boulders. Trusting in the Force, she accepted her destiny as a Jedi and proceeded to
the boulders from the exit, allowing the surviving Resistance members to escape; here she reunited with Finn, and embraced him. As she was about to close the
doors once the Resistance was all aboard, she shared one more interaction through the Force with Ren,
. Safely in hyperspace, Rey reunited with BB-8 and took notice of the droid's new antenna. Upon reuniting with most members of the Resistance, Rey met Dameron and was warmly reunited with Organa. Both were able to sense that Luke had become
with the Force, but that he had finally found peace, and Organa assured her that the Resistance, and hope, would survive.
Ya know, Rey… If things had gone a little differently, we'd have met a long time ago. Probably sitting right here, long while back, all four of us, headed to bring that Jedi map to Leia.
If there's one thing I'm beginning to learn, Poe, it's that you can't dwell on changing the past. Concentrate on the present. Work with what you have.
Oh, I know. Just… Could've avoided a lot of heartache, you know. Considering everything we just been through, it's hard to
In addition to Finn, Rey grew to consider Poe Dameron as one of her friends.
After barely escaping the First Order aboard the
, Rey accompanied by Finn, BB-8, and Poe commented about their past experiences, leading Rey to tell him that she had learned they can't dwell on changing the past, rather to concentrate on the present. After Finn brought up Poe's questionable survival during their TIE fighter escape both Rey and Finn listened to his story and explanation to what lead to his survival.
to translate some of the writing in the sacred Jedi texts.
Knowing that Kylo Ren was the son of Leia Organa, Rey pressed the Resistance general for information about Ren's past, hoping to learn the reasons behind his fall from grace. Although she recalled Ren's account about his fall out with Skywalker, Rey did not understand why he chose the dark side in spite of his beginnings in the light. She recounted Ren's entreaty, that they could rule the galaxy together, to Organa who saw the pain etched in Rey's face as she thought about Ben Solo. Organa realized that Rey cared about Solo, and his decision to seize absolute power instead of redemption had disappointed Rey. They both agreed that no one was capable of saving Solo except himself, but Rey was still hurt due to the hope she had for him.
where she found Rey, Chewbacca, and Resistance pilot
debating where to go, as they needed to refuel but only had enough for one jump. Organa suggested they head to the planet
where an old friend and ally of hers owed her a favor, and Rey made the jump to
, arriving near the planet. When contacted by
was carrying medical supplies for the southern region, before the situation was taken over by the
ordered Rey to follow him, and said he would explain once they landed. Upon landing, Rey, Organa, and the rest of the crew of the
, pilots for the RDA. They led the crew to their father,
, where he spoke with Organa. Yendor gave his support to the Resistance, and they sent out three teams to gather ships and leaders to help the Resistance from the planets
Rey was among the group that had stayed on Ryloth, and before Finn's departure to Corellia, Rey spoke with him about something that was bothering her, and he urged her to talk about it with Organa, which she did. Organa expected Rey to join Finn and Poe to Corellia, but Rey informed her that she had a feeling that she would be needed on Ryloth, to which Organa agreed. Later, Rey approached Organa again saying she felt the same feeling, and Organa told her that because of the Force, the feelings the two of them had were not just regular feelings. Rey struggled to put her feelings into words, and Organa showed her the status of the missions to put her mind at ease. Just as
finished her debrief to Rey and Organa, Rey felt that the First Order had arrived, which Yendor confirmed.
, Organa called for Rey, and the girl appeared by her side, blaster in hand. Rey and Organa fought side by side until the attack on their position had faded, and Chewbacca called an all clear, wanting everyone aboard the
immediately. Rey reported that the X-wings would lead the escape, while everyone else followed. Rey stared at Organa, and said they had to fight, as letting the First Order win was not an option. She said that as long as they fought, there was hope for them to win. With that, Rey piloted the
off Ryloth and to their next destination. Following the battle, the Resistance regrouped at a
. At the safe house, Rey spoke to Finn and Poe about the Resistance's next steps, and caught Organa looking at them. Rey stated that Organa knew that the Resistance was in good hands because she had them, and Poe swung an arm around Finn and pulled Rey in on the other side, saying they would save the galaxy together.
Oh yeah? Let's see how you could hold up against the power of the Force.
Rey used the Force to spin her staff striking multiple Quarren attackers.
As her service carried on, Rey's reputation grew amongst members of the Resistance, who took her as a sign that the Force was truly with their movement.
Sometime later, Rey went scavenging for spare generator parts while she stayed at the
. When fighting it, she tried to concentrate and use the Force to tame the beast, but to no avail. Eventually, she was saved by the
with Leia, Chewie, and Tico on board, where they proceeded to
As a result of the fracas, the Resistance agents were brought before King
to settle it, and Rey agreed, in order to save her friends. She then fought
. After Tico intervened, they were exiled off the planet in accord with the laws. However, a Quarren sabotaged their ship.
Rey ran after the Quarren, and with Tico's help, captured him. They then brought him before the king again, they were able to convince him to lend the Mon Calamari's support. At the same time, a Star Destroyer fleet led by General
Aided by Poe Dameron and Rose Tico, Rey freed the Zixon of Minfar from the First Order.
Sometime later, after the mission to Mon Cala, the new crew of the
. Dameron offered Rey to pilot, but she wanted to fly the vessel. As they were finishing loading, they received a distress call from
, prompting them to head over to assist. Upon arriving, they were ambushed by the forces of a First Order
After landing, the crew explored the jungle, soon falling into a series of tunnels where the
, who took them to her village. Needing parts, the locals took them to the Forbidden Lands, which were old Imperial laboratories. The Zixon were then enthralled by the
. The First Order forces escaped, leaving the Resistance to come up with a new way to free the Zixon, assisted by the
to strafe the camp with Rey piloting, while Dameron infiltrated their cruiser the
and destroyed it and the Echo Horn. A call to the Resistance then allowed for reinforcements to arrive.
That is the moon of Kyzring. It's loaded with carnium, an energy-rich metal that powers half this sector. The Mining Guild has been digging into this moon for years. They take what they can use, and whatever's left, well…you see for yourself.
At one point, Rey was able to fulfill her life-long dream of flying an X-wing. Dameron took her on a training run in a T-70 to the
. Dameron led them through the debris field, but when his
, Rey used the Force to shoot the droids. When they ended the exercise, Rey affirmed that they were all in it together.
The Resistance is not one place. It's alive. It's everywhere. We will rise against you!"
Sometime after leaving Crait, Rey made her way to the Outer Rim world of
. There, she led a recruitment effort based out of a Resistance encampment near the
, alongside Chewbacca and other Resistance members.
At one point during Rey's time in Black Spire, Ren confronted Resistance spy
. Before the Supreme Leader could harm Moradi for refusing to divulge the location of the Resistance's new base, Rey emerged by proclaimed that the Resistance was everywhere and would rise against him. As the two began dueling, Rey told Ren about how they fought with hope, which she believed would give the Resistance the strength to triumph. Although Ren gained the upper hand in the duel as Chewbacca joined the battle against First Order forces, Rey, upon being asked by her dark side rival why they would risk everything, answered that the Resistance fought for what they would win in the end. Rey then knocked the Supreme Leader's lightsaber back and fled from him. After Ren was forced to leave when a stormtrooper informed him of an "incident" on a destroyer, Rey and her allies regrouped and left for General Organa, who was waiting for them.
took off from the Resistance's Batuu encampment on a mission, Rey communicated with those on board through a holographic message delivered by BB-8. Once appearing, she informed BB-8 that he should be in flight prep. With BB-8 promptly leaving, she then turned over to speak to the new Resistance recruits on Batuu, thanking them for joining the cause. She then informed them that a covert Resistance team had infiltrated the
, which was now headed to Batuu. Knowing Batuu was no longer safe to harbor a Resistance base, she informed them that they were readying transports to take them to their new base on
. She then informed them that they desperately needed their help in the fight against the First Order before informing them that they must keep the location of their new base a secret. Trusting them, she informed them that Lieutenant
would be captaining the transport that would take them to Pacara. After a short message from Bek, she welcomed them to the Resistance and hoped that the Force would be with them before ending her transmission.
Ignoring his attempts to tempt her into darkness, Rey duels Kylo Ren aboard the
Around the same time, Rey also boarded the
, which came to the interest of the First Order. When Ren himself eventually arrived aboard the ship and began to threaten the lives of the passengers, Rey revealed herself and began a duel against the Supreme Leader, demonstrating her growing skills in combat since their first confrontations. Proclaiming that she was never alone, Rey fled from blaster fire from nearby stormtroopers before engaging Ren again, ignoring his claims that the Jedi and Resistance should die. After losing the Skywalker lightsaber to Ren, Rey found herself held in a Force grip by her rival as Chewbacca and other Resistance members emerged, but she again denied his offer to stand by him and reclaimed her blade. After she rejected his claim that she had given herself over to nothing, a holocron containing a message from Yoda was activated before the crowd, but Rey managed to claim it for the Resistance and escape.
Rey, BB-8, Finn, and Poe take on the pirate gang on Noaxson from both sides
When the Resistance had settled into their new military on Ajan Kloss, Poe Dameron and Finn went to a rocky location at a moon to set up a natural Jedi training course from R2-D2's memories, but the droid needed to charge after using up his power to bring up that memory. After the construction, Poe and Finn blindfolded Rey and took her and BB-8 to their Jedi training site using the
as a transport. Upon seeing the location, Rey became surprised that her friends constructed the site all by themselves. She started training alongside BB-8, but she ended up falling down a hole, where there was a gang of pirates that recognized her because of her staff and BB-8. Before pirates could warn the First Order, Rey nearly single handed defeated the pirates with BB-8's help, but one pirate was able to escape to their ship which was parked outside.
Rey and BB-8 then climbed out of the hideout, coming across more pirates. Poe, Finn, and R2-D2 had been taken as hostages by them, so used the natural surroundings of the Jedi training course to dodge the enemies along the way and approach the hostages. While the pirates were arguing about leadership and how the First Order will reward them, Rey disabled the long range communications on their ship. After disabling the pirates' ship, she and BB-8 rescued Poe and Finn after they managed to got out their bindings but were quickly pinned down into a corner. Then, the trio and two droids flew the
back to their base and agreed that Leia would take care of Rey's Jedi training.
Rey, Finn, Chewbacca, and BB-8 agreed to give safe passage to
, in exchange for Resistance contacts. But along the way, the group had to make a repair stop on the planet
. During the visit Faltus was confronted by the bounty hunter,
who was hired by the First Order to capture him. A chase ensued throughout the city with Rey attempting to fight off the bounty hunter, but Varris managed to knock Rey back and capture Faltus.
Rey was waiting with General Leia when Finn and Poe returned from their mission on the planet Kamil, returning to the Resistance with the livestock they managed to secure after fighting the First Order along with a deal of spare parts. Rey was then gifted a
that Finn took during his mission, saying that it brought him luck.
Rey was attacked on Kashyyyk by a bounty hunter during Life Day.
with Chewbacca, where she also met his son
. In the middle of the celebration, the Jedi Padawan was attacked by the bounty hunter
, who followed her into the planet with the intention of capturing her for the First Order. After dodging some blaster shots, Rey was aided by some Wookiees that attacked the bounty hunter and later used the force to track her after Ja'Randa escaped into the jungle. Followed by Chewie and his son, Rey was soon forced to surrender after the bounty hunter threatened to kill Lumpawaroo if she didn't. On their way to Ja'Randa's ship, the trio was rescued from custody by
, who jumped from one of the trees to attack the bounty hunter, making both of them fall from a cliff.
Thankfully, Viiveenn was hanging from a rock, which saved her from the fall and was soon pulled back up by Rey and the other Wookiees. Despite the damage Ja'Randa caused, Rey also used the force to save her from falling off the cliff, rescuing the bounty hunter, who soon decided to stop her hunt and celebrate Life Day with Rey and the other Wookiees. During dinner, Rey noticed how Viiveenn left the table to see a hologram of her dead father, which prompted Rey to gift her the doll Finn gave her not so long ago, saying that the Force told her she should have it.
Despite Rey's commitment to the Jedi way, she struggled to control her anger and aggression.
Following their near destruction at the Battle of Crait, the Resistance regrouped under General Organa's leadership. Rey's presence among their ranks aided recruitment efforts, as word spread that the last Jedi was fighting for the Resistance cause.
Rey had embraced the way of the Jedi, though she also honored her roots by wearing garments inspired by her past on Jakku.
As a result of Luke Skywalker's death, it fell to his sister Organa to oversee what remained of Rey's training. It was a path that Organa had taken thirty years earlier,
having briefly learned the Jedi arts under her brother's mentorship,
before deciding that her future lay in a different direction. Organa therefore served as a mentor to Rey, whose compassionate nature and admiration for inner strength caused her to revere the general.
, a safe haven for the Resistance and the same planet where Organa took her first steps into the Force. The primeval rainforests formed a
to challenge Rey's physical and mental skills. She also utilized Skywalker's old tools that Organa once used while honing her own Force abilities—training helmets and practice remotes that had lain unused for years.
Rey healing the kyber crystal of her lightsaber.
A typical training regime concocted by Organa involved Rey capturing colored ribbons tied to trees that were defended by a trio of color-coded remotes. These training remotes tested Rey's evasion and deflection skills by flying about her on repulsorfields, firing sting-beams to distract her. The red remote was the most persistent, and therefore the most challenging to Rey's temper.
At this point, Rey successfully repaired the Skywalker lightsaber, though she also felt that she had not yet earned the right to wield it as her own weapon.
The repaired saber featured weld marks as well as Rey's wrist strap which had been repurposed to bind the broken shaft. The
inside had been healed using techniques that Rey learned from Jedi scripture.
Find the wayfinder, get to Exegol… And bring an end to this conflict once and for all.
During her training, Rey sought to commune with the spirits of the Jedi.
a mysterious message was broadcast across the galaxy, announcing the return of the long dead Sith Lord Darth Sidious.
reached the Resistance, courtesy of a spy within the First Order ranks, it became instantly clear to Rey how the Supreme Leader undertook the voyage to find the ancient Sith redoubt. She had read about the
in the pages of the Jedi texts, specifically the red-covered
, which had been annotated by Luke Skywalker. The Jedi Master had chronicled his efforts to find the
, while tracking down fleeting mentions of Exegol during his explorations of the galaxy. Studying Skywalker's notes, Rey learned that a wayfinder would have to be used at least once to find a flight path through the Unknown Regions to Exegol; the route could then be saved within a standard navicomputer for future use.
Determined to finish what Skywalker began, Rey would set out on a quest to find a wayfinder and reach Exegol, where the former Emperor was readying an
, for deployment. Though she intended to travel alone, believing the mission was too dangerous for her friends, they nonetheless decided to accompany Rey on her quest.
Do you still count the days since your parents left? Such pain in you. Such anger. I don't wanna have to kill you. I'm going to find you and I'm going to turn you to the Dark Side. When I offer you my hand again, you'll take it.
Accompanied by her friends Finn, Dameron, and Chewbacca, as well as the droids BB-8 and C-3PO, Rey followed Skywalker's path to finding Exegol, which ended on the planet
She welcomed the sense of calm that Pasaana gave her, still feeling most comfortable on desert worlds. In contrast to her desolate homeworld of Jakku, however, Rey found Pasaana teeming with culture.
; as Rey wandered through the festival, her bond with Kylo Ren reconnected the two Force users, allowing them to see and hear each other across the stars.
Rey communicated with Kylo Ren with their Force bond.
Ren told Rey that the Emperor wanted her dead; when she accused him of serving at another master's bidding, Ren denied it,
having sacrificed too much to be subservient.
He did not want to kill her, though he also wanted to know why Rey had refused his offer, when he knew that she wanted to accept. Instead of answering Ren's question, Rey asked him why he saved her life instead of killing her when he had the chance. Knowing the full story behind Rey's lineage, Ren was certain that if he made the same offer again, Rey would accept it if she knew the truth. Before their connection ended, Ren seized possession of a
, causing it to teleport to his location through the bond.
The necklace had been gifted to Rey by the Aki-Aki reveler
and as such, the First Order discovered that Rey was on Pasaana.
While attempting to avoid First Order troops, Rey and her companions were found by Lando Calrissian, whom Organa had reached out to for help.
Unknown to either, they had indirectly encountered each other during Ochi's hunt for her
years before. Having accompanied Skywalker on his search for Exegol, Calrissian pointed the group in the direction of the
, an abandoned starship that belonged to Ochi.
Rey used Force healing on an injured vexis.
As they traveled to the ship, they were ambushed by several
but they managed to defeat them. Approaching the ship, they were caught by the
and they began to sink; Rey heard Finn call out to her but they all sank underground within the muck, dropping into an underground cave system. After regrouping, Rey asked Finn what he tried to say to her but it was brushed aside "for another time." They discovered Ochi's bones alongside an
that had several Sith runes inscribed into the
, and, although C-3PO was capable of translating it, he could not due to his programming restriction on speaking the language. A large reptile known as a
suddenly appeared. Though the snake appeared hostile, Rey, seeing the animal was injured, used the Force to
its wounds, thus taming and calming the creature and causing it to reveal a way out of the tunnels the beast had created under the sand.
Rey unintentionally destroyed the transport with Force lightning.
Rey agreed that they should extract the data from C-3PO and, anticipating the First Order had taken the
, prepared to leave aboard Ochi's ship; however, she sensed the arrival of Kylo Ren and left the group to confront him. Rey waited for Ren to attack in his
, and subsequently destroyed it by slashing its wing with her lightsaber while leaping over to avoid being hit. After disabling Kylo's fighter, Rey heard from Finn that Chewbacca and the dagger had been captured by the Knights of Ren and taken by troopers aboard an
. Rushing to help, Rey attempted to stop the transport she believed was carrying Chewbacca and the stolen Sith dagger using the Force. Kylo Ren tugged back, and the subsequent struggle resulted in Rey destroying the ship with a sudden burst of
, greatly shocking them both. Horrified by what she had done and thinking she had killed Chewbacca, Rey barely managed to escape in time.
power. You're his granddaughter. You are a Palpatine. My mother was the daughter of Vader. Your father was the son of the Emperor. What Palpatine doesn't know is that we're a dyad in the Force, Rey. Two that are one.
C-3PO to read the message inscribed on the dagger. However, the group was stopped by
who formerly worked with Poe and recognized him. When Zorii threatened to capture the team, Rey attacked the woman with her staff and held her lightsaber against Zorii's throat. Zorii told Rey that although Rey probably didn't care, she thought she was okay, to which Rey told her that she did care. Zorii led the group to
, he successfully completed the procedure on C-3PO, wiping the
's memory in the process. When the First Order arrived at Kijimi, Rey sensed where Kylo Ren was and learned that Chewbacca was alive, initially believing he died on Pasaana, but he didn't because he was on another transport.
Rey attacked Ren through their bond when he tried to tell her the truth about her origins.
to rescue Chewbacca, Rey confused two stormtroopers with a Jedi mind trick and joined Finn and Poe in finding the captive Chewbacca, but is drawn away by the presence of the dagger, telling the others that she knew that they needed it somehow. As Rey made her way to Kylo Ren's quarters, she encountered the mask that once belonged to the Sith Lord Darth Vader. Seeing the dagger along with
and bandolier, she went over to retrieve them. When Rey grabbed the dagger, it induced another vision; this time of what happened to her parents. Ochi, who was to find and recover Rey, killed her parents as they got in his way. A short duel against Kylo ensued as he and Rey connected through the Force dyad. Their bond allowed them to see and fight physically even from afar, eventually revealing her presence in his quarters when their fight caused his table of ashes holding Darth Vader's helmet to fall in front of him. When Kylo realized where Rey was, Rey grabbed the dagger and Chewbacca's things before running towards the hangar.
Rey discovered the truth about her lineage and the nature of her bond with Kylo Ren.
When she made it to the hangar, she found that Finn, Poe, and Chewbacca had not returned. She saw Kylo land and told BB-8, C-3PO, and
to locate them. As stormtroopers surrounded them, Rey confronted Ren in the hangar bay. She asked him why Palpatine wanted to kill her. Ren replied by saying she had his power, revealing to her that her father was the son of the
, just as Ren's mother was the daughter of Vader. Ren also revealed that he and Rey were a dyad in the force, two Force-sensitive beings that were paired to become one in the Force, and together they could defeat Palpatine and take the
for themselves. As Ren prompted her to make a decision, Rey said that she already did as the
arrived. Rey jumped out of the hangar bay towards Finn on the
s ramp, and the Resistance made their escape.
It's the Death Star. It's a bad place, from an old war.
Rey used Ochi's dagger to search for the location of the Emperor's wayfinder against the ruins of the second Death Star.
of former stormtroopers led by one who called herself
DS-2 Death Star II Mobile Battle Station
, Rey located the area where the Sith wayfinder should be located. She wanted to leave right away, but Jannah warned them that the seas were too dangerous and that they would leave in the morning. Unbeknownst to her companions, Rey impatiently piloted a
through the massive waves and violent waters.
Once there, she walked and climbed her way through the dilapidated hallways and chasms of the wrecked Death Star, and eventually entered the
The dark side vision of Rey activated its saberstaff.
She approached the throne of her grandfather, but felt a dark presence beckoning her from an adjacent chamber which housed the Emperor's wayfinder. Rey walked through the door as it closed behind her. Exploring the vault, she discovered the
. Once she grabbed it, she encountered a dark side vision of herself
that haunted the ruins of the Death Star
The dark vision told her not to be afraid of who she was, echoing the words of her master. The vision activated its
and they engaged in a duel. She was no match for her inner darkness, and she tumbled out the vault and dropped the wayfinder. Ren was there, and caught it in his hands.
I did want to take your hand. Ben's hand.
Rey was cornered by Ren in the ruins of the second Death Star, where their respective grandfathers met their demise.
Realizing Ren had come to her without his mask, the scavenger had a feeling that he would never wear it for her again. His voice betrayed feelings of contempt as he noted Rey's desperation to prove herself as a Jedi to his mother. But in embracing her darker emotions, Ren believed that Rey had become as isolated as he was and that she was no longer able to return to Organa any more than he could. Rey nonetheless continued to defy him, confusing the Supreme Leader, who was surprised she could still resist. Continuing to provoke her, Ren asserted that the dark side was in their nature and urged her to surrender to it. Rey ordered Ren to give back the wayfinder, even pushing with the Force, but her attempted mind trick had no effect on Ren. With Rey panicking as she sensed his next move, Ren declared that she would never find Exegol unless she joined him, shattering the wayfinder in his hand.
The last duel between Rey and Ren took place in the ruins of the second Death Star.
and attacked Ren. Rather than igniting his own lightsaber, Ren leapt out of the way of Rey's blow, ducked under the next attack, and whirled away from her. The fact that he was not fighting back further enraged Rey, who had all but lost herself to her own fury. Bringing his own lightsaber to bear, he began blocking Rey's blade while she continued to swipe, slam and stab her weapon at him. He eventually gave ground, dropping into a shaft with Rey leaping after him without a second thought. Leaving the throne room, the Dyad dueled ferociously along the watery trenches of the
nearby, attempting to bring her back. Alarmed by his presence, Rey was overcome by an instinct to protect her friend from Ren. With no thought at all, she pushed Finn with the Force, sending him flying away in the opposite direction toward
. During their lightsaber duel, the two sparred telepathically, with Ren reminding Rey that he knew her in ways that no one else could. The longer they fought, the clearer it became that Ren was physically stronger than Rey. Ren dominated most of their fight, and Rey eventually was knocked down to her knees by his attacks.
Rey force healed Kylo Ren and confessed that she did want to take his hand.
Ren loomed over Rey, who stared at him as he raised his lightsaber. In that moment, Rey was convinced that she would die on the wreck of a space station, accepting that she may not be fast enough to dodge his next attack. But as she readied herself for death, Ren froze where he stood, his lightsaber held high. His gaze suddenly became distant; across the galaxy, his mother called out his birth name with her dying breath. Ren dropped his lightsaber, sensing his mother's death through the Force while Rey, exulting at the prospect of victory, caught the Supreme Leader's weapon and pierced his abdomen, running him through with the stolen blade. Having felt Leia's death, Rey began to mourn, and realized she attempted to slay Ren in an act of rage. Regretting her actions, Rey reached out, putting her hand on Ren's chest. Drawing on all of her energy as well as the life force around her, she gave much of it to Ren. As a result, his wound was completely healed, disappearing altogether along with his facial scar. Rey sensed Ren's astonishment and his unasked questions, and explained that he had been right. She did want to join him, but only the side of him who was Ben Solo, not Kylo Ren. Disillusioned by her ordeal, Rey commandeered Ren's
and left Kef Bir, allowing instinct to dictate her next move out of desperation to escape the galactic conflict.
Rey, some things are stronger than blood. Confronting fear is the destiny of a Jedi. Your destiny.
The spirit of Luke Skywalker communed with Rey, convincing her to confront her grandfather, Darth Sidious.
Shaken by her Sith lineage and multiple instances of dark side rage, Rey returned to Ahch-To on Kylo's ship, with the intent to go into exile like her first master Skywalker had. She burned the ship that brought her there, but just when she threw the Skywalker lightsaber into the burning wreckage, the Force spirit of Luke Skywalker appeared to her and caught it. After a long discussion, Skywalker convinced her to face her grandfather, Darth Sidious, as he did his father, Darth Vader, telling her that confronting fear was the destiny of a Jedi. He bestowed her with
and his old X-wing, both of which Rey took to Exegol, navigating with the Wayfinder she found in the wreckage of Kylo's ship.
You are nothing! A scavenger girl is no match for the power in me! I am
Rey confronted her grandfather, Darth Sidious, during the battle of Exegol.
Rey traveled along a safe route to Exegol in Luke Skywalker's
, using Kylo Ren's wayfinder and transmitted her plotted course to the Resistance, allowing them to travel along her passage. Rey arrived at Exegol and proceeded to face Darth Sidious within the
. Before the Throne of the Sith, the frail and immobile Dark Lord of the Sith let fall the
ceiling, uncovering the battle above, showing a greatly outnumbered and outgunned Resistance failing against the
. Exploiting the imminent extermination of the entirety of the Resistance, Sidious commanded that she strike him down with hatred lest her "newfound family" be annihilated, intending to transfer his own spirit into the young and strong body of Rey, thus possess her body. Rey had been stalling for time after sensing that Kylo Ren―now redeemed and going by his birth name, Ben Solo, was on Exegol. She nearly succumbed to the temptations of absolute power and the dark side of the Force, but Solo's presence was shining bright with the light within her mind. Knowing that he had come to help her, she feigned defeat and acceptance while shielding her true intentions from the Emperor, a skill that she had honed through practice with Ren.
Standing together as a true dyad, Rey and Ben Solo confronted the rotting remnant of Darth Sidious.
Solo, realizing that he could not defeat all six
with only a blaster, received a telepathic message from Rey through their bond, and he knew what she intended to do. Rey lowered her weapon behind her back, as if preparing to strike down her grandfather, who leaned forward with gleeful anticipation, but when she raised her hand it was empty. She had projected her weapon away, and with horror the Emperor realized his mistake in allowing Rey and Solo to come together. Their bond had been refined in the fire of mutual searching, shared grief, rage, and hate, but also compassion and empathy, and it was the one thing that Sidious had not foreseen. Rey ignited
surrounded her. As before on Pasaana and Kijimi, they were separate but also together, with Rey battling the crimson-robed guards and Solo confronting his former comrades. This time, however, they were drawing on each other for strength, becoming even more powerful as one instead of two. Ren sprinted toward the throne room where Rey had defeated all of the guards save one, whom Solo tossed aside using the Force. They stood facing each other, together at last. Rey observed how different Solo was from Ren, and wondered how she never noticed the resemblance between him and his parents until then. They raised their lightsabers as one, dropping into a fighting stance before Sidious.
Sidious used his "unnatural" Force powers to drain the life force from Rey and Ben.
Sidious snarled at his would-be heirs, exclaiming that they would die together as he raised his rotting hand and impaled them with the Force. Their lightsabers dropped to the ground, and the Emperor pulled them toward himself, partially draining their life force as they kneeled before him, unable to move. They were helpless against his power, their combined life force began to heal the clone vessel. Sidious gasped, watching as his hands began stitching themselves back together, bones re-growing, and pale flesh closing over them. He was astonished to discover that his granddaughter and Vader's grandson were a dyad in the Force, and their bond the equivalent of the power of life. Realizing that their powers combined would allow him to fully return to life, Sidious used the Force to drain the life energy of both Rey and Solo to restore himself to the form he had before his first death at the hands of Anakin Skywalker during the Battle of Endor. Drained of their powers, Rey and Solo fell to the floor. Having no further use of Solo, Sidious, exclaiming revenge for his first death, flung him into a nearby abyss to an apparent death.
Sidious, having been fully restored to his former self, told his Sith loyalists to not fear the attack of the Resistance as no one will stop the Sith's return. He then proceeded to ignite a powerful display of
into the air, which disabled all Resistance ships up to the size of Nebulon B frigates, including those of Finn, Poe, and the galaxy fleet, and sending them plummeting toward the ground, including the legendary
. Weakened and seemingly defeated, Rey called upon the voices of past Jedi.
The battle above disappeared, instead, Rey felt like she was staring through a window somewhere else, "a place between places."
Among the voices, she heard her former Master Luke Skywalker, his father
encouraging her and lending her the strength to carry on against the Sith Lord.
She had embraced peace and calm, experiencing a state of
With the assistance of the spirits of all the departed Jedi, Rey turned her grandfather's full power back at him, destroying him.
Rey then stood up, with her new courage received from the Jedi before her. Sidious, noticing this, ceased his Force lightning attack on the Resistance fleet. Telling Rey that her death will be the Rebellion's final word, Sidious launched a barrage of Force lightning at Rey. Rey then attempted to block the Emperor's electric attack with Leia's lightsaber, while Sidious proudly announced himself to be the culmination of the Sith legacy. However, Rey's bolstered strength emboldened her to retort that all past Jedi lived within her, calling back the Skywalker lightsaber and igniting it, using the two lightsabers in tandem with conducting the power of all past Jedi to deflect Sidious' lightning back at its wielder. Unable to tolerate the strain of the immense energy reflected back at him, Sidious screamed in agony and horror as he was disintegrated under his own energy. In an explosion that decimated the entire arena, all of the Sith Eternal gathered inside and Darth Sidious himself were destroyed. The rebirth of the Sith Order was prevented, thus ending the ancient conflict between the Sith and the Jedi.
Solo sacrificed himself for the love of another, restoring Rey to life.
Rey died from the sheer amount of power required to utterly destroy Sidious, an event felt by Finn, and her body collapsed to the ground. However, Solo had survived the earlier ordeal with Sidious, and climbed up the cliff from the Abyss, running back to Rey as he realized she sacrificed herself to kill the Emperor. Finding Rey dead, Solo mourned her and cradled her in his arms. Unable to accept her death, Solo made the decision to sacrifice himself so Rey could live again. He put his hand on her and poured his own life force into her body. Upon waking up, Rey covered his hand on her belly with hers and stared at him, becoming aware of what transpired. He expected her rejection again, but after a moment of confusion, Rey's eyes lit up and she whispered his name, actually glad to see him.
After the defeat of Darth Sidious, Rey and Ben shared a kiss, acknowledging their connection, as they celebrated finally having found each other.
Surprising Solo even more, instead of letting him go, Rey filled his heart as she reached for his face and leaned forward kissing him. She shared with him a kiss of gratitude, acknowledging their connection for the first time, as they were both overwhelmed with joy, celebrating that they had truly found each other at last. But Rey soon became concerned as she felt him growing colder, and as she drew back to look at him, Solo smiled at her. Still with him in her arms, Rey clasped his hand and watched Solo collapse in the ground with no regrets after bringing her back to the galaxy, the Force reached for him in welcome. Rey stood at the place she just saw Solo vanish and cried staring at his empty tunic.
As much as she didn't want to mourn Kylo Ren, Rey was filled with sorrow thinking on the missed opportunity to have known Ben Solo, whom just sacrificed everything for her. She felt like her other half was ripped from her. After all the years of loneliness in Jakku, she had just found that she was part of a connection, a dyad, but as she thought that was taken from her, she was devastated. But upon hearing Solo's voice through the Force trying to comfort her, reassuring that he would always be with her, Rey smiled with the realization that he was not truly gone and would always be with her.
There's been no one for so long. Who are you?
Honoring Skywalkers' heroic journey and recognizing them as her family, Rey assumed the surname and glared upon the binary stars of Tatooine.
Rey returned to Ajan Kloss to celebrate the victory with the Resistance where she reunited with Dameron and Finn again. Moved to see them, she shared an embrace with her friends. Afterwards, she traveled to the
, where she laid both Leia's lightsaber and the Skywalker lightsaber to rest, but after crafting
lightsaber in which she was able to ensure it worked. When a
asked for her name, she renounced her Palpatine lineage, renaming herself "Rey Skywalker" with the blessing of the Force spirits of Luke Skywalker and Leia Organa.
She kept her origins as a Palpatine a secret, uncertain about what her allies would think if they knew the truth, or if they cared about bloodlines at all. Rey's heart defined who she was, not her bloodline, and this brought her peace and purpose.
In taking on the Skywalker name, Rey recognized the Skywalkers as her chosen family
and honored the legacy of those who had come before her.
While the biological Skywalker dynasty was gone, the familial line was continued by Rey, who looked to the future while also the possibility of training her own generation of Jedi learners and passing on the responsibility of maintaining balance between light and dark. By doing so, the Skywalker legacy lived on through her.
Utilizing her new weapon, the Skywalker legacy was honored.
Some time after adopting the name Rey Skywalker, she gave a debriefing of her account of the Battle of Exegol for the
At some point afterward, while she was trying to ensure galactic peace was restored, Rey became a
during a new era ushered in with the final destruction of the Sith, from which the galaxy was being shaped, at the time, in ways still not yet known by the Force.
drew Rey and many others who had played a role in
in a series of planetary maps. Long after the war between the First Order and Resistance, the maps were restored and published by the
. Alongside art depicting the events, Rey's actions during the quest to find Luke Skywalker were detailed in the book.
Following the destruction of the Sith, a new
Following her taking of the name Skywalker, Rey recorded a
in which she reflected on her journey and what was yet to come.
Rey Skywalker had begun rebuilding the Jedi Order, following in the footsteps of her former master, Luke Skywalker.
However, she was opposed by rising enemy forces who hoped to tear down the Order she was still in the process of building, with the Jedi in chaos and uncertainty about how many exist.
I know all about waiting. For my family. They'll be back, one day.
Rey saw herself as a "nobody"—an anonymous scavenger from the backwater world of Jakku.
, and light skin that adapted to the extreme ultraviolet radiation emanated by the
that shone down on the desert world of Jakku.
The harsh realities of such a world could have easily made a person cynical or guarded against sympathy and weaknesses, but not Rey. Despite eking out a meager existence in the scorching heat of the Western Reaches planet, Rey possessed a heart full of generosity and a willingness to help other people in need.
It was this willingness that led her to not only help BB-8 be free of Teedo's interference and Plutt's attempts to acquire the droid but also led her to help BB-8 in its mission to return the star map it carried to the Resistance. Though she never wanted to leave Jakku for fear that she would not be there when her family returned for her,
she believed in the importance of the Resistance and its fight against the First Order enough that it gave her strength and bravery to continue on BB-8's mission to find Luke Skywalker and defeat the First Order.
She had a stubborn, private, and self-reliant side, distrustful of fellow scavengers Devi and Strunk when they offered her help in repairing the Ghtroc 690 freighter she'd found.
It was difficult to change her mind once she'd made a decision, impatiently stealing a skiff speeder to reach the remains of the Death Star on Kef Bir instead of waiting for the tides to subside, against Jannah's advice to wait. She had a tendency to try to do things alone, both out of a desire to protect her friends and her stubborn nature. Still, her friends were incredibly important to her; she considered them her newfound family. Her teachings from Organa and Skywalker guided her in her journey in the Force, and it was only when Palpatine threatened to kill her friends that she considered going along with his plans.
Her duel with Kylo Ren on Starkiller Base and the other events of that time had exposed Rey to fear, aggression, and anger. These emotions could easily bring one to the dark side of the Force. Rey needed guidance, and Skywalker was the only Jedi Master in the galaxy.
However, by the end of their time together, Rey had grown furious with Skywalker due to his rejection of the Jedi and his refusal to explain his role in Ben Solo's fall to the dark side. She believed that the galaxy needed the Jedi Order and was dismayed by Skywalker's rejection of his mandate as the last Jedi. As difficult as it was for Rey reconcile the legendary Jedi Master with the defeated old hermit who wanted the Jedi to end, she remained steadfast in her conviction that Skywalker was the hero that the galaxy needed.
Though her journey to Ahch-To ended in disappointment for Rey,
she refused to give up hope—a trait which led Supreme Leader Snoke to consider her a true Jedi in spirit, and precisely why he needed her to die.
For years, Rey's imagination took her mind to other worlds, including those with lush green forests
and beauty that she could never even dream of. The adventure she found while helping BB-8 and Finn brought her to one such world in the form of Takodana,
where she began to realize that her destiny was not in the junkfields of a remote desert planet. Her encounter with Maz Kanata profoundly impacted how she saw herself and what she was capable of, and Rey began to see that she was part of a larger galactic fight—and that the power of the Force was with her. Her recognition of these abilities and her destiny coincided with turbulence in the
and ultimately led her to find Skywalker.
The years that she spent on Jakku also proved useful when faced with Skywalker's obstinacy; having learned the value of patience, Rey remained on Ahch-To despite the old Jedi Master's refusal of her entreaty, determined to wear him down.
Their time became a battle of wits, as Skywalker and Rey were equally stubborn. When she found Skywalker short on answers, Rey improvised on her own, which was what she did best.
Despite the harsh conditions of her upbringing, Rey was compassionate and willing to help those in need.
For years, Rey remained optimistic and hopeful that her parents would return for her, wearing the same hairstyle and style of clothing that she had when they'd left her in the hopes that they'd recognize her when they came back. The question of who they were haunted her while on Ahch-To, and was left with feelings of disappointment and even greater loneliness when she found no answers. She was distraught when Kylo Ren led her to believe that her parents had been mere junk traders who sold their daughter for drinking money.
The truth that she was Palpatine's granddaughter, however, had an even greater effect on her. She began to believe that, as a Palpatine, she was innately evil, and attempted to isolate herself on Ahch-To as Skywalker had, for the good of the galaxy. It was only with encouragement from Skywalker, who admitted he'd been wrong, that Rey overcame this fear and joined the final battle against the First Order on Exegol. Later, after the battle was won, Rey renounced her biological heritage, choosing her new family as she renamed herself Rey Skywalker.
During Rey's time on Ahch-To, Skywalker felt that she reminded him too much of himself:
Snoke preyed on those attributes, knowing that Rey could not "resist the bait" he had laid before her, though the Supreme Leader also felt the young Jedi's bravery, spunk, as well as the hatred swelling in her and savored it.
The most important friend in Rey's life was Finn. He was the first one to genuinely care about her as a person, immediately asking if she was okay when they'd been knocked off their feet while they fled from stormtroopers at Niima Outpost. Their skills complemented each other while they flew the
, and by the time they escaped Jakku, they'd begun to form a deep, unbreakable bond, starting to care immensely for one another. Rey begged Finn not to leave on Takodana, and was willing to die with the unconscious Finn on Starkiller Base as it was collapsing on itself, but were saved by Chewbacca's arrival in the
She continued to worry about him while on Ahch-To, requesting Chewbacca to give Finn a message if she didn't make it. She hugged him tightly when they were reunited on Crait, relieved to once again be with her best friend.
Their sense of care and trust for each other carried them throughout their time with the Resistance, inspiring and giving each other strength.
It's a power that Jedi have that lets them control people and… make things float.
Impressive. Every word in that sentence was wrong.
Rey possessed a deeply held faith in the Force, a spiritual energy that she once regarded as a fanciful myth.
As a scavenger on Jakku, Rey had heard about the Force through stories told about the Jedi. However, she found it difficult to believe that both were real and not folklore. Though she would discover that the Force had always been within her, at the time Rey thought it was simply her "intuition and luck" that helped her to survive in Jakku desert.
Her worldview began to change when she encountered Han Solo, who confirmed that both the Jedi and the Force existed. At first, Rey was overwhelmed by the revelation that she was connected to the Force. Though she eventually opened herself to the Force, using it to defeat Kylo Ren,
her understanding of it was limited due to her lack of training. When her apprenticeship began under Luke Skywalker, Rey saw the Force only as the source of the Jedi's power, explaining that it helped them to make things "float."
During her first duel with Ren on Starkiller Base, Rey had experienced her first temptation to the dark side; seizing on the vengeance Rey wanted to inflict upon Ren after the death of Solo, an amorphous, unknown voice in her mind ordered her to kill him. Rey recoiled from and rejected the temptation,
but it would not be the end of her struggles with darkness.
With Skywalker as her mentor, Rey came to see the Force as more than the abilities it granted to individuals such as herself. As a result, her knowledge grew to include ideas, such as the Force being an energy field that surrounded everything, binding the universe together, and serving as a balance between the dark side and the light. Rey's newfound belief in the Force led her to seek out Ren despite her master's warnings; having seen his future in a vision, she believed that the Force wanted her to bring Ben Solo back to the light.
Beneath Rey's devotion to the light lay doubts and fears regarding her darker inclinations.
The outcome of her confrontation with Ren had mixed results for Rey. While she exulted in the way he saved her by killing his master, Supreme Leader Snoke, she was dismayed by Ren's decision to rule the galaxy instead of returning to the light. She had been certain that her vision would come to pass, though Skywalker had warned her that it would not. Ultimately, this incident caused Rey to revise her understanding of the Force once more. Until then, she had treated the Force as an instrument of her will. After allowing the Force to control her actions while fighting the Praetorian Guard, Rey saw herself and Ren as instruments of the Force, and consequently discarded an opportunity to take his life while he was unconscious. In Rey's mind, Ren's fate would be decided not by herself but by the will of the Force.
Rey's faith in the Force grew stronger as she studied the Jedi sacred texts that she took from Skywalker. Although she appreciated the books for their knowledge and contribution to Jedi history, Rey did not believe that they contained a universal "truth" about the Force. Nevertheless, she was fascinated by them and would spend countless hours reading and learning arcane techniques.
. When we touched I saw your future, just the shape of it, but solid and clear. You will not bow before Snoke. You will turn—I'll help you.
Rey considered Kylo Ren her mortal enemy, but through their bond she gained insights into his hurt and pain.
At first, Rey thought that Kylo Ren was a "creature" until she saw his face and was surprised by how young he appeared. After he killed his father, Han Solo, whom Rey regarded as a father figure, she abhorred his actions and called him a "monster."
Ren's presence in Rey's life caused the scavenger to experience a range of emotions, such as fear
She also distrusted him; though she sensed that Ren used traces of the truth in the hope of accomplishing his goals for her, Rey doubted his intentions nonetheless.
Rey was terrified of Ren whom she regarded as her "mortal enemy" and a genuine threat to the Resistance's survival.
In addition to the anger she felt towards him,
Rey was infuriated by Ren's calmness towards her as well as his curiosity about the connection between them. The interactions between them affected Rey in other ways as well. At one point, she was distracted by the sight of Ren without his shirt.
She also felt strange when Ren addressed her by name.
Through their Force-bond, however, Rey discovered the depths of Ren's inner turmoil.
The combination of her solitude and the bond caused Rey to sympathize with Ren;
by then, she saw him as someone who could relate to her feelings of abandonment and isolation. As a result, she grew more relaxed around Ren, experiencing relief instead of fear when their minds were bridged. She also developed her own interest in their connection, and wondered to what degree they could interact through the Force.
Rey cared about Ben Solo, and their connection convinced her that he still existed within the shell of Kylo Ren.
At first, Rey believed that Ren fell to the dark side because he failed as Skywalker's apprentice. This view changed gradually as she interacted with both members of the Skywalker family, leading Rey to consider the possibility that it was the master who failed his student. After learning the truth about the destruction of Skywalker's temple,
Rey was convinced that good still existed within the fallen Jedi,
and she resolved to see him return to the light as the galaxy's last hope against the dark side.
Rey rejoiced when Ren killed Snoke and helped her to defeat his master's bodyguards, only to become horrified by his decision take Snoke's place as ruler of the First Order.
and she wanted to join him but as Ben Solo rather than Kylo Ren.
Ren's choice to remain with the dark side
who rejected his offer to rule the galaxy together.
Rey's really something by the way. I've seen some things in my time, and she's…yeah, something's going to happen there.
through the wreckage of a Super Star Destroyer.
Rey honed her skills as a scavenger in the junkfields of Jakku, a planet on which every day was a struggle to survive against harsh sunlight, searing hot deserts, and cutthroat scavengers and thieves who would steal from anyone. This bleak reality, in which she nonetheless remained ever-hopeful, saw Rey develop a tenacity and instinct for survival. Her skills as a scavenger saw her earn the respect of junk traders like Plutt, who ensured that his thugs did not steal from her—unless her skills got in the way of his business. The need to survive against such beings, and the ability to traverse downed star cruisers and other war technology, necessitated that she remain in peak physical condition. She developed skills as a warrior,
with the ability to expertly wield a quarterstaff against those who would threaten her.
Her interactions with offworlders also allowed her to learn languages from other worlds, such as the Wookiee language of
She also had a certain talent for drawing, which she put to good use in her
In her time on Jakku, Rey learned the ins-and-outs of being a mechanic, and she was gifted with a seemingly innate understanding of how machinery worked. This left her comfortable around vehicles and weapons, including the AT-AT she called home; she kept the weatherproofing of the downed transport intact to protect against the climate, and she set traps around it so scavengers could not steal from her. She built her own speeder and salvaged an old computer that ran simulations flying a variety of different ships. She became a skilled pilot by constantly practicing these simulations, despite never wanting to leave Jakku.
These skills proved ever-useful when she piloted the
away from Jakku, and she displayed an understanding of its systems and functions with a familiarity that rivaled even that of Han Solo.
Chewbacca also recognized these abilities, giving her the pilot's seat in the
after Solo died and the two set off to find Skywalker.
All of these skills and more were put to the test when she left Jakku with BB-8 and Finn.
through the Starship Graveyard, in which she formed a working partnership with Finn when the former stormtrooper manned the gun turrets of the old Corellian vessel, and further helped Solo repair the
when it was damaged. Her ability to understand languages not commonly found on Jakku came in handy when helping BB-8 with its mission, as well as through interactions with Chewbacca.
The bond between Rey and Ren reached an unprecedented level of strength as their connections became more frequent.
The adventure that followed her leaving Jakku led Rey to discover that she was gifted with the powers of the Force. Though she initially rejected these powers and the destiny that came with them, Rey's encounter with Skywalker's lightsaber began awakening the power of the Force inside of her,
with Snoke believing her powers emerged to match those of Kylo Ren's.
She resisted Kylo Ren's attempt to probe her mind for the map to Skywalker and even turned his attack back on him to discover his own fears of inadequacy in the shadow of Darth Vader. Because of this, Ren concluded that Rey was strong with the Force; untaught, but stronger than she realized.
As a side effect of that mind probe, Rey inadvertently unlocked some of her dormant Force abilities by accessing memories of Ren's training which, in turn, served as her own training in the ways of the Force.
She was, therefore, able to employ the mind trick, albeit only after three attempts, against a stormtrooper in order to escape from captivity, and her skills grew throughout her escape from the Starkiller. On one occasion, she was able to summon Skywalker's lightsaber to her hand and make it fling itself past Kylo. This culminated in her lightsaber duel with the injured Ren, as she was able to repel his attacks and best him in their fierce encounter, destroying his lightsaber;
however, she had been only able to achieve this due to Ren's imbalance.
Rey was able to move tons of rock with little effort.
Thereafter, Rey embraced these events and the abilities she was just beginning to learn when she sought out the exiled Skywalker, rekindling a spark of hope for a galaxy on the road to war.
On Ahch-To, she was able to use the Force to
After her training with Luke, Rey proved capable of lifting and moving several boulders simultaneously with a mere amount of concentration to open a passageway for the Resistance on Crait, and could also access the Force-bond forged by Snoke to communicate with Ren seemingly at will. According to Snoke, she grew more powerful in the light side of the Force as Ren grew stronger in the dark side.
According to Luke Skywalker, Ren was far more powerful than Rey,
but Rey's powers were quickly growing. In the few days since the Battle of Starkiller Base, she progressed from needing to attempt the mind trick several times before succeeding, to moving dozens of heavy rocks at once and she was able to match Ren in a Force-wrestle for a lightsaber. Despite her growing powers, she was unable to hold off Snoke's mind probe and was helpless against his telekinetic powers,
though she previously resisted his apprentice Ren's. Due to being a Palpatine, she was inherently stronger in the dark side of the Force.
Rey had a natural skill with the lightsaber.
Despite her lack of proper training, Rey proved a natural in lightsaber combat, albeit neither as seasoned nor as versatile as Kylo Ren, as even after he was severely injured and unbalanced due to regretting Han's death, Rey struggled to parry Ren's attacks until she tapped upon the Force to defeat him, with Luke noting that Ren's skills with a lightsaber far surpassed hers.
Although after she had trained for a year, her prowess had greatly improved enough to challenge Ren in a fair fight, fighting him to a stalemate in their first duel. In their last prolonged intense duel, Rey ultimately proved to be incapable of truly matching him as she was able to compete against him for the majority of their duel. Ren eventually knocked her on the ground and disarmed her following a number of ferocious attacks. She was only able to end their fight by impaling him when he was distracted by his mother calling him through the Force. She previously struggled in fighting Snoke's Praetorian Guard, one of whom managed to wound her in the right shoulder, and though she managed to fight all of them off and kill one when fighting alongside Ren, she struggled against two of them at once and despite forcing back one of them, in both one-on-one fights she was nearly killed by a guard. She displayed creativity by side-stepping to avoid the
that nearly killed her and then slayed the first Guard. Upon getting restrained by the final one, Rey dropped her lightsaber to slash his unguarded leg and knock him down.
After a year of training, Rey displayed noticeable skill in blast-deflection, deflecting every blaster bolt from Palpatine's Sith Royal Guards.
Rey later discovered her power was inherited from her grandfather, Darth Sidious. On one occasion, Rey used Force lightning after being pushed by Kylo Ren when she attempted to stop a First Order transport she believed was carrying Chewbacca. Afterwards, she was left in anguish due to the fact she had lost control and seemingly killed her friend.
Following a year of training under Organa, Rey's light side powers became considerably more refined. Her telekinetic prowess had grew to the level where she could levitate both herself and large piles of stone into the air and was strong enough to slowly tug a prison transport that carried Chewbacca to the ground using the Force despite considerable effort, although Ren was able to hold her to a standstill using his own power. When she faced Ren, Rey blocked his lightsaber strike with the Force, which he would soon replicate on her own attack. During her fight with Palpatine's Sith Royal Guards, Rey was able to redirect some of the blaster bolts fired at her at another guard, killing them instantly, and knocked down and tossed him off the cliff with telekinesis. Additionally, Rey became capable of
, which she would use to avoid Ren's fighter and to avoid a tidal wave when fighting Ren for the last time. Using the Force, she was able to heal Kylo of a mortal wound, even causing the scars she had previously inflicted on him to vanish as well. Rey's lightsaber skills had vastly improved as well to the point that, bolstered by the strength of all the Jedi, she was able to block Palpatine's Force lightning with Leia Organa's lightsaber. By combining Leia's lightsaber with the Skywalker lightsaber, Rey managed to reflect Palpatine's Force lightning back onto him in order to disintegrate Palpatine, destroying his throne and collapsing the chamber that they were in on top of the cultists of the Sith Eternal.
Rey made her home in the downed remains of an All Terrain Armored Transport called
, a leftover from the Battle of Jakku. After claiming it as her own, Rey made a number of modifications to the AT-AT. She disabled the fuel tank, as it was too dangerous to keep online, and welded the main hatch shut. As an entrance and exit, she used a side hatch that Imperial
only would have used in emergencies. In order to operate the
that Rey used to power her home, she salvaged two self-charging fuel cells from the wreckage of speeder bikes in the vehicle bay. Many of the materials also proved useful for salvage;
, terrain scanners, atmosphere intakes, and more were all materials she was able to trade to Unkar Plutt.
While in the walker, Rey generally stayed inside the lower troop deck, though there was a speeder bike garage and upper troop deck in the walker. Despite
laying on its side, Rey came to think of it as right side up after getting so used to it. Inside she had a workbench for working on salvage material, her computer terminal, and a hammock that she made herself when she was a girl.
Being inside the walker gave her a degree of protection as well. Not only did Rey maintain the vehicle's weatherproofing, thereby keeping the daytime heat and frigid nights out of the craft, but she also set up traps around the walker in order to keep scavengers out of her home.
Rey's custom-built speeder traveled at great speeds and could haul her salvage material and gear.
Although the AT-AT was her home, Rey's speeder was more important for her survival.
Rey took great pride and joy from her speeder, a custom-built
vehicle. It stood at 3.73 meters in length and carried no weapons, but its hauling capability, and the net used as a cargo bag on the side of the craft, allowed her to ferry items she salvaged from the Starship Graveyard to her AT-AT and Niima Outpost.
Despite its ability to haul cargo, its space was limited; the craft valued speed over cargo capacity, so Rey often had to make return trips to carry her salvage into Niima Outpost.
The craft was top heavy, making it difficult for other pilots to control it, but Rey was a skilled enough pilot to manage it.
Its top heavy nature made her more confident that other scavengers would not steal it, as did her safety precautions: a fingerprint scanner that meant only she could power the speeder's engines, and a loose wire that she used to electrify the craft when she was not using it in the event that someone tried to hotwire the speeder.
The speeder itself was built from supplies that Rey scavenged from the deserts. It was powered by twin
engines she claimed from a downed cargo-hauler, which she mounted stacked rather than placing them side-by-side. She bolted them to powered amplifiers that she scavenged from an Imperial vessel. It was further customized with racing-
, a customized combustion chamber, and repulsorlifts she scavenged from crashed
, amongst many other modifications she made. When carrying a limited load, the speeder was even powerful enough to accelerate to the point that it could fly like an
. Rey enjoyed using the craft to hone her piloting abilities, sometimes taking it out for flights and performing maneuvers like barrel rolls.
The speeder's capabilities, as well as its necessity for survival, gave Rey a sense of independence. Although no one could be truly free and independent on Jakku, due to scavengers being dependent on Unkar Plutt for food, the speeder at least meant that Rey could go wherever she wanted whenever she wanted.
Rey's survival gear was crucial for traversing the Starship Graveyard, as were the many tools she carried.
I have a reputation in Niima Outpost for being willing to use my staff, which keeps most of the riffraff from bothering me.
Being a scavenger required many types of tools and gear necessary to survive. Rey's scavenger
was ideal for protecting herself from the heat and carrying the tools she needed to do her job.
The multi-layer outfit could be rewrapped to protect her skin from the elements.
She wore tight-bindings to keep out the sun and sand as well as salvaged gauze wrappings. She even wore her hair in a simple style designed specifically for survival in the desert. Her boots were made for travelers and were created out of
that Rey salvaged from a ship. Water was an essential part of a scavenger's life, and many scavengers forgot that the heat was their worst enemy. Rey always carried more water with her than she needed to and carried replacement parts for all of the critical components on her speeder.
To be as successful a scavenger as Rey meant acquiring the best tools she could, learning how to use them, and always maintaining them.
She carried her tools in a mesh-windowed salvage satchel that contained her salvages and survival equipment.
Tools she kept in the satchel included a set of
with Wessex and Blissex heads; modulators that included
for removing scorching on her salvages; a
, including two that were powered and one that came in the standard model;
for inspecting parts to see if there were breaks or cracks too small for the eye to see; a
and computers were properly decoupled, lest their data be purged after being unhooked with authorization; and a
that contained schematics of ships from the Starship Graveyard.
Rey also carried a salvage kit, made from happabore leather, with brushes for cleaning the parts she acquired.
Rey was proficient in combat with her quarterstaff.
One of the most important items Rey carried was her quarterstaff, which she salvaged herself and wrapped with scraps of uniform. She kept the staff strapped to her person with a strap made from wool and
The staff was an important tool for traversing downed ships. Because it was so dark inside the unpowered vessels, it was not unheard of to be injured by jagged metal or falling through brittle hull plating. Rey used her staff to check that every step she took was stable, particularly in a ship she had never been in before.
She also used the quarterstaff in combat if necessary, which required her to keep a firm back-arm grip in order to power any sudden swings. While using it she remained standing in a lower defensive position, and she was practiced with skilled and agile footwork. Rey also had a small
After Rey left Jakku and arrived on Takodana, she was given an
from Han Solo. The pistol was small, befitting her own size. It had an
body shell, flash-suppressing and stabilizing muzzle, and a compact grip that was suited for her small hands. Though it was small, its enlarged power core and reinforced frame meant that it was a sturdy weapon that delivered a powerful blast onto any enemies.
Rey crafted her own yellow-bladed lightsaber from parts of her quarterstaff.
In Maz Kanata's castle, Rey also learned that Skywalker's lightsaber was destined for her, as the Force beckoned her to claim it.
The lightsaber was built by Anakin Skywalker during the
and, after it was lost to Luke Skywalker during a duel with his father, it was salvaged from the depths of Cloud City.
Rey finally claimed the lightsaber during her duel with Kylo Ren, and she carried it with her to Ahch-To so she could present it to Luke Skywalker himself.
Returning to Ahch-To, Rey was given Leia's lightsaber which she later used during the Battle of Exegol to deflect Darth Sidious' Force lightning back at the Sith Master, killing him. After defeating her grandfather, Rey brought both lightsabers to the Lars Homestead on Tatooine, where she used the Force to bury the weapons in the sand.
Rey built her own lightsaber during the war against the First Order, using parts from her quarterstaff to construct the hilt and cloth to create the handgrip. The kyber crystal she chose emitted a yellow blade. The weapon was activated by rotating a gear-like mechanism, causing the lightsaber emitter to open up and allowing the plasma to ignite. It emitted flashes of blue and green before producing its yellow blade.
I tend to gravitate towards stories of women, of young women in situations – as I did with
. And we were talking about 'Who could this be?' and I saw this young woman.
, which would be released under the banner of
after its acquisition of Lucasfilm, it became clear to them that
could not just rely on the heroes of the
and would need to create a new generation of characters to take up the mantle. One such character was Rey who was conceived as the protagonist from the project's beginning. In the original treatments for the new trilogy written by George Lucas, the character was a 14-year-old Force-sensitive girl named Taryn. Later, during the development process for
, she was also known as Thea, Winkie, Sally, Echo, and Kira.
, agreed to write the film when he was told it would be the origin story of a female Jedi.
He described Kira as a "loner hothead, gear-head, badass."
, who was chosen as the film's director, quickly gravitated towards the idea of a female lead, and to the notion that the character, living thirty years after
, would not know who Luke Skywalker was or even regard him as a myth.
Abrams was also drawn to the idea of a female Jedi being at the center of the
Luke Skywalker himself posed a challenge to the character who became Rey while Arndt was working on the early iterations of the film. In early drafts of the story, Arndt wrote that Rey's home was destroyed and she goes off a journey where she meets Luke and then defeats the villain. Arndt felt like Luke's presence upstaged Rey, thinking that every time Luke entered a scene he overshadowed her character because the audience would want to know more about him. Ultimately, the writers chose to make Luke the ultimate goal of the film, with Rey's journey culminating in discovering Luke in exile.
Concept art of "Kira" in a spaceport, by
, Abrams called the character "Sally" as a placeholder before giving her the name "Kira," which was changed to "Echo," before he settled on "Rey."
As the story was developed, Kira had two male companions: Sam, who became Finn, and a character then-known only as John Doe. John Doe was originally her partner, was briefly thought of as a Jedi, and then cast as a bounty hunter. He eventually evolved into a member of the Republic military, before evolving away from being part of Kira's story and becoming Poe Dameron. Kira was conceived as a scavenger in junkyards early on. At one point, an alien junk dealer was introduced into the story and Kira worked in a sort of used car lot that was run by a former Republic pilot, who was an elderly father figure for Kira. From this job, she would watch starships arrive and depart every day, giving her dreams of leaving her backwater world
—a trait that made its way into the final film.
Her skills with a pilot were also part of early concept art, including one depicting Kira flying a starfighter and fighting Star Destroyers. Her speeder, which in concept art also took the form of a small ship, was devised as a "hero ship," one that could show the audience something about the character and her abilities to assemble a craft through various different parts.
, the film's costume department created its first drawings for what Kira's costumes would look like. Initially, her costume design was going to have a lot of gear for climbing and tools because of her scavenging work, but the production team chose to go with a simpler look and pared the costume down. The final design was approved in
, including the goggles that she wore while scavenging. The genesis of the goggles came from the production team not wanting people to know who the character was at first, including whether she was male, female, or even human. Her home, built in a downed AT-AT, was constructed in Abu Dhabi at the end of a mangrove swamp, which was the only place that the production could find that had a clear horizon and was flat and desolate. Abrams said that because the character's existence was miserable during her time on Jakku, he wanted her home to be built somewhere that seemed equally miserable.
The name Kira was used as late as until filming in
, when Abrams informed Ridley he had decided to go with Rey.
The name was eventually used, with alternate spelling, for Han Solo's girlfriend
. For information on the creative back-and-forth before it was finally settled on making her a Palpatine, see the
said they considered cutting the character kissing Ben Solo at the end of the film: "I always said, 'The movie will tell us whether they should kiss or not. We will know by the time we get to the end of our process, if it should happen.' And I felt it should, and [director J.J. Abrams] agreed with me, and other people who saw the film agreed. I know it's not for everybody. I know there will be people who wish they hadn't, but this is a film that was never going to please everyone, and I think that the reviews are kind of reflective of that. The things that certain people love, other people hated. And that's the phenomenon of
She's not a superhero. She's a normal girl thrust into extraordinary circumstances, so it's very relatable.
Daisy Ridley won the role of Rey after several auditions over the course of seven months.
In looking to cast the new film, Disney issued casting calls for a female lead and a male lead in
. The female lead, referred to only as "Rachel," sought a young woman to play a character between the ages of 17 and 18. The character was described as beautiful, smart, and athletic, and it was open to all ethnicities, as Abrams sought to diversify the saga and did not have any particular ethnicity in mind for the casting of the lead roles. The casting call provided vague bits of backstory for the character, saying that she was young when she lost her family and had to learn how to survive with strength, street smarts, humor, and guts in a dangerous town.
Just like the final version of the character,
the casting call further said that "Rachel" hoped she would one day escape her lot in life and move on to a better existence.
Of the many actresses who auditioned for the role of Rey, the part went to
Ridley felt compelled to audition after hearing about the role, saying she had "this really weird feeling" that ultimately led her to securing the role of the saga's newest hero.
When Ridley was offered Rey's part, Abrams warned her to understand the scale that being part of a
The audition process took seven months and Ridley went through four or five auditions over that period before securing the role. At first, she was sour on her chances and did not believe her first few auditions were any good. By the time she made it to the final audition, however, Ridley said that it felt like everything clicked into place. Abrams intentionally wanted to cast an unknown like Ridley because he wanted the audience to discover her, and other new characters, as characters rather than as actors they had seen in other projects.
After securing the role, for three months Ridley did not tell anyone that she was the new lead in the
Kennedy hopes that a female Jedi like Rey, played here by Daisy Ridley, can be an inspiration for young girls.
She spent those three months training for the role after being asked to build up muscle, in order to credibly come across as a person who could lift heavy metals in the junkfields of Jakku and ultimately fight stormtroopers. The creation of a female lead and the casting of Ridley was deliberate.
, the president of Lucasfilm and producer of
film in 2015 was going to be released without diversity and balance. With the casting of Ridley, Kennedy said that they had found someone who had a physicality and self-confidence that Rey needed, as well as an optimism about how anything was possible—a trait mirroring Ridley's own rise from unknown actress to
Ridley herself said that the character can serve as an inspiration for young girls around the world who, through Rey, can see a progressive
and relatable female character on the big screen.
" and used it as the primary character motif of the film. Williams felt empathy for the character when he first saw her in the unfinished film, as she was introduced alone and without her family, so he wanted the theme to convey that empathy. He gave the track a musical grammar that was intended to be more of an adventure theme rather than a hero's theme, one infused with the promise of more adventure and heroic resolution to come.
"Rey's Theme" recurs throughout the soundtrack, including in "The Scavenger", "That Girl with the Staff", "Farewell and The Trip", and "The Jedi Steps and Finale".
Well, J.J. [Abrams] was the one who was like,
where that was the message. What was interesting about the last one, for me, was that you can be a hero and not come from anywhere or you can be a hero and come from literally the worst person in the universe. You're not your parents, you’re not your grandparents, you’re not your bloodline and you're not the generations before you. So, I always was like,
. But it's beyond my pay grade. I say the words, do the thing. I do love the version of, you can be anyone you want to be, but I also love the version where you can rectify wrongs and can't help what you're born into.
It is requested that this article section
Please improve it in any way that you see fit, and remove this notice once the article section is more complete.
and went through extensive training for the film.
Ridley underwent extensive physical training in preparation for reprising her role in
was released, her anxiety had developed to such a point that holes were present within her stomach wall. She was eventually forced to slow herself down and gave herself a six month break before filming started on
film which closed out the sequel trilogy and in which she returned as Rey.
The COVID-19 lockdown then provided Ridley with a chance to process all that had happened to her over the last few years.
, Rey is claimed to be a "nobody" whose parents abandoned her for drinking money,
reveals that her parents actually hid her away because she was descended from Emperor Palpatine.
Many commentators have viewed this change as a retcon, but Ridley responded to a question about this being a retcon by stating she finds both ideas interesting.
The details of how Rey lost her parents and was left alone on Jakku were revealed in
, Ridley stated that the character "is a part of a beautiful whole" and stated that she thought it was "wonderful" to be part of that whole. She sees Rey as a beautiful character who continues to resonate with audiences.
As of 2020, Rey is being portrayed by Disney Parks cast members at
, meeting guests and acting as a recruiter for the Resistance.
, Ridley had a chance to meet "herself" when she visited
and encountered an actress playing Rey, who did not break character and whose performance she praised.
attraction in the form of a holographic message played to guests before the mission portrayed in the ride.
that she will reprise her role once more in an
Rey wasn't sold to Unkar Plutt – Dathan and Miramir paid him with a songsteel medallion to hide her.
, it is claimed by Kylo Ren that Rey's parents "sold [her] to protect her" from Darth Sidious.
recontextualized Rey's backstory by depicting the events themselves,
revealing that Rey was not "sold" whatsoever; instead, her parents
—revealed to be named Dathan and Miramir in the novel
—paid Unkar Plutt to hide Rey on Jakku by giving over a
Furthermore, Plutt then threatens to force Rey to work if Dathan and Miramir cannot return by the end of the season, noting that
will create a debt the medallion will no longer cover.
, shortly after becoming a Jedi Master, Rey took Finn as her apprentice and set off to the Unknown Regions in search of
Explore all of Wookieepedia's media for this article subject:
Forces of Destiny: Daring Adventures: Volume 1
Galactic Adventures Storybook Collection
Choose Your Destiny: A Scavenger Mission
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: A Junior Novel
Leia Organa - A Princess, A General, A Mentor
Choose Your Destiny: A Maz's Castle Mission
Join the Resistance: Attack on Starkiller Base
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: A Junior Novel
The Last Jedi: Rose and Finn's Secret Mission
Choose Your Destiny: A Finn & Poe Adventure
Black Spire: Return to a Shattered Planet
R2-D2, BB-8 and Rey's Lightsaber on the Loose!
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel
LEGO Star Wars Should Have Used The Force
LEGO Star Wars Should Have Joined Forces
A Dancefloor Battle in Snoke's Throne Room
LEGO Star Wars: Rebuild the Galaxy - Pieces of the Past
LEGO Star Wars: Rebuild the Galaxy - Pieces of the Past
LEGO Star Wars: Rebuild the Galaxy - Pieces of the Past
LEGO Star Wars: Rebuild the Galaxy - Pieces of the Past
Star Wars: The Force Awakens Official Teaser
Databank A-Z: E-11 Blaster–Cornelius Evazan
Star Wars: The Force Awakens Official Teaser #2
Databank A-Z: Saw Gerrera–Commander Gree
Databank A-Z: InterGalactic Banking Clan–Jakku
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Star Wars: The Force Awakens Trailer (Official)
Star Wars: The Force Awakens TV Spot (Official)
Star Wars: The Force Awakens 60 Second TV Spot (Official)
Star Wars: The Force Awakens TV Spot 2 (Official)
Star Wars: The Force Awakens Finn TV Spot (Official)
Star Wars: The Force Awakens "Secret" TV Spot (Official)
Star Wars: The Force Awakens Look and Find
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: Incredible Cross-Sections
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: New Adventures
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
Databank A-Z: Petranaki Arena–Proton Torpedoes
The Sound of a Galaxy: Inside the Star Wars: The Force Awakens Soundtrack
12 Things We Learned About Rey, Finn, and Poe from
Star Wars: The Force Awakens—The Official Visual Story Guide
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia: Updated and Expanded
From a Certain Point of View: Who Is Stronger with the Force - Rey or Kylo Ren?
Highlights of the Saga: Infiltrating Starkiller Base
Highlights of the Saga: The Raid on Takodana
Weapons & Uniforms: Inhabitants of Jakku
Highlights of the Saga: Assault on Starkiller Base
Footprints in the Sand: Impressions of Rey
A Heroine's Journey: Rey's Adventure Begins
Much to Learn You Still Have: 8 Things You Might Not Know About Wookiees
Star Wars: X-Wing Deluxe Book and Model Set
Weapons & Uniforms: Heroes of the Resistance
Highlights of the Saga: Help from an Old Friend
Entertainment Weekly's Ultimate Guide to Rogue One
Star Wars: The Last Jedi Official Teaser
The Last Jedi Panel Highlights – Star Wars Celebration Orlando 2017
Highlights of the Saga: Luke's Journey in the Force
Star Wars Super Graphic: A Visual Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
Star Wars Forces of Destiny: Meet the Heroes
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, Updated and Expanded
Forces of Destiny: Tales of Hope & Courage
Star Wars: The Last Jedi Activity Book with Stickers
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Heroes of the Galaxy
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Incredible Cross-Sections
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Ultimate Sticker Collection
Rey Embarks on a Hero's Journey in the Latest
Rey's Journey in the Mirror Cave Echoes and
Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles
Star Wars Lightsabers: A Guide to Weapons of the Force
The Last Jedi: Rose Tico: Resistance Fighter
The Moviemaking Magic of Star Wars: Creatures & Aliens
Echoes: Rey and Ezra Bridger, Alone and Searching for Belonging
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
YT-1300 Millennium Falcon Owners' Workshop Manual
Star Wars: Millennium Falcon: A 3D Owner's Guide
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia, New Edition
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker – Teaser
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
Starfighter Aces: Rey — A Natural Aptitude
Star Wars: How Not to Get Eaten by Ewoks and Other Galactic Survival Skills
Journey to Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Resistance Heroes
Journey to Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Search & Find
Journey to Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Resistance
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker Book and Magnetic Playset
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Galactic Guide
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
The Art of Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
The Final Order and the Battle of Exegol
Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy
Ahsoka Tano and Other Users of the Force
SWCA 2022: The Women of ILMxLAB Discuss Their Career Journeys
New Andor Trailer, Lawrence Kasdan Talks Light & Magic, and More!
Inquisitor Novel Revealed, and More Highlights from the Lucasfilm Publishing Panel
The Darker Side: An Exploration of the Occult in
"Daughter of Ferrix" Episode Guide | Andor
"Entombed" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
Jon Favreau and Dave Filoni Talk Mandalore, Jaxxon Returns, and More!
Celebration Europe 2023 Exclusives from Hasbro, the LEGO Group, and More
SWCE 2023: 11 Highlights from Lucasfilm's Studio Showcase
SWCE 2023: 10 Reveals from the Lucasfilm Publishing Panel
Star Wars: Inquisitor: Rise of the Red Blade
Master & Apprentice: A Special Look at Ahsoka
Everyone Needs a Wookiee Hug on Valentine's Day
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
Publishing Program and Other Reveals from the Lucasfilm Panel
D23 2024: All the Star Wars News from D23: The Ultimate Disney Fan Event
Meet the Cast and Creators Mixing Things Up with
LEGO Star Wars: Rebuild the Galaxy | Bobby Moynihan Builds the Dark Falcon
Behind the Bricks: Our Favorite Easter Eggs from
Music By John Williams | Official Trailer | Disney+
Star Wars: The High Republic: The Lightsaber Collection
Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy
Skeleton Crew | The Skeleton Crew Talks Star Wars | Streaming December 3 Disney+
New Star Wars Women's History Month Variant Covers Spotlight Iconic Heroes of the Galaxy Far, Far Away
Dispatch: More Star Wars Celebration Badge Art Revealed
Celebration Japan 2025 Art Show - Reveal
Celebration Japan Show Floor Exclusives - Reveal
Star Wars: Women of the Galaxy: Updated and Expanded
LEGO Star Wars: Rebuild the Galaxy - Pieces of the Past
Video Game Should You Play Right Now? - Updated
Video Games There's a Galaxy of Connection
NYCC 2025: All the News and Reveals from the Lucasfilm Publishing Panel
How "Rey's Theme" Kept John Williams Coming Back to the
Chewbacca and Other Creature Department Creations from
From Santa Yoda to Rocket Sleds: Lucasfilm's
LEGO Star Wars Comic 14: Abenteuer mit Chewbacca und Han Solo
LEGO Star Wars Summer Vacation | Official Trailer | Disney+
LEGO Star Wars Summer Vacation: A Vacation Adventure Clip
LEGO Star Wars Character Encyclopedia Updated Edition
Strap in Starfighter, Star Wars is Taking Over in Fortnite: GALACTIC BATTLE!
A Giant Chewbacca Joins the Fight in New
LEGO Star Wars: Rebuild the Galaxy - Pieces of the Past
Our Favorite Deep Cuts and Fun Facts from
LEGO Star Wars: Rebuild the Galaxy - Pieces of the Past
Darth Rey, Darth Rose Tico, Darth Nubs?! 😈 | LEGO Star Wars: Rebuild the Galaxy: Pieces of the Past
"The Song of Four Wings" Episode Guide | Star Wars: Visions Volume 3
Lessons with Rey on Life Day! 🎄❄️🍖| LEGO Star Wars: Holiday Special | @StarWarsKids
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia: Updated and Expanded
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: Head-to-Head
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
are set sometime after the temple's destruction in
, but it also takes place before she left
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
earlier. Therefore, this episode takes place between
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: Incredible Cross-Sections
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: A Junior Novel
Join the Resistance: Attack on Starkiller Base
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: A Junior Novel
Star Wars Lightsaber Battle and Stunt Show in Galaxy's Edge during media event | Attractions Magazine
FULL RIDE THROUGH of Rise Of The Resistance at Walt Disney World - DSNY Newscast | DSNY Newscast
DSNY Newscast - Worldwide Disney News Coverage
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
New Disney Parks Collectible Reveals First Look at Post-Episode IX Rey
Kathleen Kennedy on the Future of Star Wars | Star Wars Celebration 2023
"We're fifteen years out from Rise of Skywalker."
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, Updated and Expanded
J.J. Abrams on going old school and how 'Star Wars' differs from 'Star Trek'
Star Wars: The Force Awakens DGA Q&A with J.J. Abrams & Lawrence Kasdan
J.J. Abrams explains R2-D2's closing scene in
'Star Wars: The Rise Of Skywalker' Editor Reveals Answers To Major Mysteries
How Daisy Ridley went from bit parts to lead in Star Wars: The Force Awakens
'Star Wars 7' Casting Call for Smart, Athletic, & Beautiful Young Heroes?
Dreams of Stardom: Picayune native appears in blockbuster film
Star Wars: The Force Awakens Daisy Ridley on why she thought she had blown her chance
by Cooney Carrillo, Jenny on The Sydney Morning Herald (
How Daisy Ridley went from unknown to 'Star Wars' superstar
Star Wars Cast On Keeping The Movie Secrets - The Graham Norton Show
'Star Wars: The Force Awakens': Daisy Ridley on Playing Powerful Female Lead
The Sound of a Galaxy: Inside the Star Wars: The Force Awakens Soundtrack
Daisy Ridley Reflects on Life After ‘Star Wars’ and Overcoming Social Anxiety
'Star Wars' Workout: Here's How Daisy Ridley Got in Shape for 'The Last Jedi'
10 Years Later, Daisy Ridley Considers the Legacy of Rey and Star Wars: The Force Awakens
Creatures, Droids, and Aliens: Meet the Fantastical Figures of
Daisy Ridley Talks Producing ‘Magpie,’ Meeting “Herself” at Disneyland and Why Her ‘Star Wars’ Return Is “Scary”
Star Wars actors bring their characters to life in Disney theme parks' Rise of the Resistance ride
"Rey wasn't sold to Unkar Plutt - Dathan and Miramir paid him with a songsteel medallion to hide her."
Quiz: Who Would You Take as an Apprentice?
Object Would Make the Perfect Valentine's Day Gift?