This article has multiple issues and is in need of major additions and/or work.
It is requested that this article, or a section of this article, be expanded. ({{
Parts of this article have been identified as no longer being up to date. ({{
}}) The article needs to be updated with
2015 Topps Star Wars Chrome Perspectives: Jedi vs. Sith
The High Republic Adventures – Echoes of Fear 1
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Star Wars: The High Republic: Chronicles of the Jedi
Star Wars Bestiary, Vol. 1: Creatures of the Galaxy
Please help Wookieepedia by editing this article. Once you have fixed an issue, you may remove it from the list of issues. See this article's
Inscription on the Blade of Ochi of Bestoon
They hoped to fill me with fear. But fear leads to anger. Anger leads to hate. And hate…leads to power.
. Driven by their emotions, including hate, anger, and greed, the Sith were deceptive and obsessed with gaining power no matter the cost. The order had many forms until it reached the apex of its power under
. Though the Sith went extinct, they still had a powerful legacy, and many continued to follow their teachings. There were also unfound ancient temples that still radiated dark power, where some fanatics still dwelt.
, believing the dark side was the path to true power. Having relocated to the
, their movement ultimately evolved into the Sith Order, resulting in a
between the former brothers and sisters in
. Although the Sith were driven off of the
of conflict ensued between the two orders, culminating in the Old Republic's
. Undermined by constant infighting and ruined by the
, the Sith were rendered all but extinct with the exception of one;
survived the ancient order's destruction and passed his knowledge to a single apprentice,
, before being entombed on Korriban, which became known as Moraband. Henceforth, the Sith was governed by the
, a new philosophy dictating that only two Sith
. As a result, the Sith were all but forgotten while the Jedi focused their efforts on
The Sith remained in hiding for a millennium until the rise of
. His entire chancellery would encompass the
Sidious sowed the seeds of discontent within the galactic populace with the help of his new apprentice, the former
, who adopted the name of Darth Tyranus and became the public face of the
Independent Movement for Self-Determination
which, in turn, compelled the Senate to support the establishment of the
, making war and devastation commonplace for the first time since the
and betrayed Tyranus as part of his plot to turn Anakin Skywalker, the Jedi Order's prophesied
, to the dark side. Playing on Skywalker's fear of losing his secret
, Palpatine revealed his deception and true identity, while claiming that the dark side was the path to
, having learned from Skywalker's report that the chancellor was, in fact, a Sith Lord, attempted to
Palpatine, but the chancellor resisted. Torn between his faith in the Jedi and the fate he foresaw for his wife, Skywalker ultimately chose the Sith by betraying
, allowing Sidious to kill the Jedi Order's great champion.
was in effect, marking all Jedi as enemies of the state. The clone
across the galaxy. With the majority of the order falling victim to the
. With the former Anakin Skywalker, renamed Darth Vader, at his side, the self-proclaimed
's rise to power was complete, and the Sith were restored to dominance after centuries of plotting.
The Sith's control of the galaxy remained relatively unchallenged for a
, discovered that his apprentice's long lost
to become a Jedi. Aware of the potential Luke inherited from his
, the Emperor foresaw the possibility of his own destruction but resolved to turn the young man to the dark side as he did with Vader. During the
, the Emperor forced father and son into a
, which ended with Luke disarming Vader. The Emperor subsequently betrayed Vader by ordering Luke to finish him off and be Sidious's apprentice, but the young Jedi Knight refused. Knowing he had lost Luke to the Jedi, the Emperor proceeded to
. At that moment, Vader, overwhelmed by his son's compassion for him, chose to save Luke by killing his master.
The death of the now redeemed Anakin Skywalker, marked the extinction of the Sith, who then succumbed to his injuries—bringing balance to the Force. Yet while the ancient
prophecy foretold the Sith's demise, it never predicted the end of the dark side. With wielders continuing to endure, such as the
his return to the galaxy and revealed the
emergence from hiding resulted in a desperate final
and a redeemed Ben Solo to destroy Sidious, permanently preventing the rebirth of the Sith.
Anger and pain are natural and part of growth. They give you focus. They make you strong.
Generations of Sith adhered to a philosophy of power through the dark side of the Force.
The Sith focused on primal emotions like anger and pain in order to gain power from the
, although like its counterpart, it governed the actions and beliefs of the Sith. The Sith code insisted on the importance of passion and the rejection of peace.
that obscured their identity while in hiding.
They used the term "dark side" because they were secretive. The Sith felt it was easier to impose order if they kept their identities and knowledge a secret or, as
maintained that, in the abstract, the Sith Order's ideals may have seemed "good" to a Jedi, but the finer details and their actions painted a clearer picture for what they truly stood for.
or related dark side groups tried to rationalize their actions at first
before being fully consumed by the dark side.
The Doctrine of the Dyad was etched into the walls of my citadel on Exegol eons ago, a constant reminder of its significance to our Order. To my Sith Eternal, the dyad is not merely the stuff of ancient legend; it is the future of the Sith—the key to unlocking the full potential of the dark side.
The Doctrine of the Dyad preceded the Sith Order's Rule of Two.
; the bond transcended their physical beings and combined them into one presence in
. The beings in a dyad possessed rare abilities that were unique to their bond, and therefore unattainable to those who lacked a dyadic connection, regardless of their own strength or experience with the Force. Over the generations, the Sith sought in vain to create a dyad through sheer willpower, believing it was the key to achieving the ultimate power of the dark side. The
viewed the dyad as a source of limitless power.
The Doctrine of the Dyad was etched into the walls of the
, eons before Sidious' time, to remind the Sith of the dyad's significance to their Order.
The Doctrine of the Dyad also influenced the
Like the Sith Order, the Sith Eternal believed that the dyad was essential to realizing the dark side's full potential.
But there was a Sith Lord who survived the culling—the great Darth Bane. It was he who reshaped the Sith, creating a new hierarchy to ensure the survival of our Order. His Rule of Two dictated that only two Sith Lords could exist at any one time—a master to possess the unlimited power of the dark side and an apprentice to covet it.
The Rule of Two governed the Sith Order for a millennium, from its ancient founder to the last Dark Lord of the Sith.
the Sith of old often found themselves ruled by two Sith in specific, who would reign over their many fellow Sith.
The Rule of Two, however, would officially limit the Sith Order's numbers due to the infighting that had ruined it. The rule nonetheless ensured the relationship between a Sith Master and their apprentice was not one of trust; indeed, both the master and the apprentice constantly searched for any sign of weakness in the other, for a weak master deserved to be overthrown by their pupil, just as a weak pupil deserved to be replaced by a worthier, more powerful recruit. This philosophy was embraced by the Sith, who adopted it as a way to purify the weak and become stronger over time, since only an apprentice who had surpassed all previous Sith could take their master's place through honorable combat.
The Sith were free to train dark side agents identified as
so long as those acolytes were not trained as true Sith Lords. However, it was more than possible the Sith apprentice would violate the Rule of Two by training an acolyte as a real apprentice, intending to have their aid in overthrowing the Sith Master.
The concept of the dyad influenced the philosophy of the Rule of Two, emphasized the power of two Force-sensitives working in tandem to grow even more powerful as an Order. As the successor of the Doctrine of the Dyad, the Rule of Two was seen as a "pale imitation" of its predecessor by Darth Sidious.
Once we were brothers in the Force. But from the Hundred-Year Darkness were born the Sith.
Korriban, later known as Moraband, was settled by the Sith following their schism with the Jedi Order.
, the Sith were the ancient enemies of the
, the Sith sought further knowledge and power through learning the dark side of the Force. Eventually, this
with a sizable following, all of whom adhered to this new philosophy that embraced the dark side.
This schism in the Jedi Order led to a civil war where the Jedi and the newly-founded Sith Order, once brothers and sisters in the Force, fought against one another for power.
The war ended in the defeat of the Sith, who fled from known
. Unbeknownst to the Jedi, however, the Sith settled on
sands that was later known as Moraband, where they rebuilt in secret and waited for another chance to strike.
Known long ago as Korriban, this ancient homeworld of the Sith was abandoned after countless wars transformed it into an infertile wasteland.
Sith temples and monuments were constructed on Korriban during the time of the ancient Sith.
As the Sith Order grew, they constructed massive
and tombs on Korriban in a location known as the
and fought wars against the Jedi for control of the galaxy. During these wars, they built massive
was similar to how Sith Lords were known to wear dark cloaks.
The Sith Order grew, spreading its might across the galaxy.
The Sith encountered and later betrayed the Drengir.
The Sith also formed an alliance with the
at some point, but the "old alliance," as they came to dub it, eventually ceased. Ultimately, the Nightsisters would decide to only retain loyalty to each other.
they worked alongside each other, until around the same year
in a bloody rule, culminating in the creation of a
that, fueled by the deaths of countless civilians, he cling onto life within.
The Jedi and Sith waged a series of wars throughout their history so ruinous that at points each was brought to the brink of destruction.
against the Jedi and the Old Republic. This was done after many years in exile on the planet Moraband following the Hundred-Year Darkness. During this war, the Sith
on the planet, which became a place of immense dark side power. Eventually, the Jedi were able to repel the Sith from Coruscant. The Jedi raised their own
over the Coruscant shrine in an attempt to contain and eliminate its power.
Around this time, the Jedi and Sith engaged in a number of battles and wars like the
, allegedly under the leadership of the Sith
It was here on… on this dead world… that the Jedi struck a terrible blow against the Sith. Many of our order were struck down. All because they wanted to be
Jedi and Sith both perished when Malachor was scourged by the power within an ancient Sith temple.
The Sith continued to expand their empire erecting temples on multiple planets. One such
powered by a giant kyber crystal. The Jedi eventually learned of the weapon and assaulted the temple. A savage
was then waged between the Sith Empire and the invading Jedi Knights. During the battle, the temple was activated, petrifying everyone on the planet. This would result in the planet being forbidden from Jedi and becoming a legend for millennia to come.
Over the course of thousands of years, the rivalry between the Sith and Jedi took many forms.
in one conflict that became very desperate, which was likely why the Jedi Order turned to
"Juyo." That aggressive lightsaber combat form, however, resulted in a number of Jedi falling to the dark side. After the conflict had finished, the Jedi banned its study.
The Jedi and Sith battled each other over countless generations.
The Darkseekers were Sith tasked with hunting and eliminating threats to their order's rule over the galaxy.
During the reign of the Sith, a cult named the
and attempted to recreate the powers of the Force with technological innovations. However, the cult was an enemy of the Sith
, who regarded the Ascendant as an order of heretics. Although Ascendant leader
was once able to escape a team of Darkseekers in the
the Sith eventually located the Ascendant's
while the Ascendant worked on finishing the
As her fellow cultists were cut down, Miril gave her life to hide the Spark away to prevent it from being recovered by the Sith.
was a legendary Jedi who often fought against the Sith. His life became the inspiration for
, one of which depicted him fighting many Sith troops at once.
fought against the Jedi. Despite being believed dead, Wrend returned to continue to battle.
fell to the dark side, becoming the Sith Darth Krall and winning the
With resources inherited from Lady Shaa and the help of acolytes desperate to aid me in my work, I designed a great engine. It was a weapon, of course, powerful enough to burn the city to ash.
Darth Momin venerated the power of the dark side of the Force.
, sought more knowledge in the dark side. He decided that his only audience was the Force and yearned to be worthy of it. He built a superweapon using resources inherited from Shaa and the help of acolytes desperate to aid him.
had the power to incinerate an entire city, but his true plan was different. He wanted to pour the Force into the weapon's engine and freeze the terrified expressions of the people in time forever, creating an artwork depicting fear and pain devoted to the dark side of the Force. When he
this, the Jedi intervened and Momin's body was destroyed, yet his mind remained inside his
where he waited for his revival as ages passed.
In the meantime, however, the Sith buried knowledge of Momin and his ideas on the belief that he had been a heretic. The Sith refused to recount information about Momin into their holocrons. The Jedi, too, made no mention of the Sith Lord in their holocrons
Nonetheless, the Sith at some point used
The Fermata Cage was then hidden within a
After thousands of years of war, the Sith were pushed to the edge of extinction.
broke out. Early on in the war, the Sith
the Old Republic capital world of Coruscant. The Sith successfully captured the planet as well as the Jedi Temple. The
was one of the last battles of the Jedi-Sith War and resulted in the Sith being driven from Coruscant.
A long, long time ago, there were many Sith. We rose up against the simpering light…we warred with the Jedi…and lost as we also warred amongst our own kind.
The Sith were reformed by Darth Bane, who decreed that only two Sith Lords could exist at any given time: a master and an apprentice.
The Sith numbered thousands, yet they were eventually
's quantitative advantage over the much smaller
The Sith's quest to gain power was ultimately their undoing, as the dark side made them turn against one another. Within a year, the Jedi managed to defeat the infighting Sith, bringing what was left of the dark order to its knees. However, one Sith,
, survived. With his fellow Sith Lords destroyed, he reformed the order by establishing the Rule of Two, mandating that only two Sith, a master and an apprentice, could exist at any given time, lest they fall prey to infighting.
To keep Bane's philosophy alive, the apprentice needed to slay their master and take on an apprentice of their own, or the master could train another apprentice and have them kill and replace their current apprentice. Bane had also initiated a revenge plot against the Jedi, called the
of Moraband after it was scarred by many wars.
in the Valley of the Dark Lords on its surface,
but the Rule of Two continued through his apprentice,
. It was rumored that Zannah had killed Bane on the
The Jedi believed that they had destroyed Bane's rule and,
Many Sith worlds were also quarantined, including
. Some worlds were so cleansed of their Sith history that even locals had no idea of their past.
forbade research into the Sith as something arcane and occult that had no place among its work.
, to everyone who touches the Force. Jedi, Sith,
The fallen Jedi Azlin Rell invoked the name of the Sith when justifying the destruction of an entire city on Travyx Prime as a gift to all Force-sensitives.
The Sith stayed in hiding for a thousand years, their survival unknown to the Jedi, as they continued their revenge against the Jedi through Bane's Grand Plan. With Sith teachings passed down by Bane's Rule of Two, the Order managed to survive.
beings emerged as a major threat to any individual sensitive to the Force. Former Jedi
—who fell to the dark side out of his fear and lost his mind—resolved to wipe out the entire species, reasoning that such would be a gift to every Force-sensitive in the galaxy, including the Sith. While he made it clear to the Jedi High Council that he was not their enemy because he was no Sith, Rell ensured a
, thereby silencing a possible lead to the Nameless homeworld,
. He proclaimed to Yoda his actions were a gift to every Force user, including the Jedi and Sith,
but Yoda did not take his words as proof of the Sith Order's return.
I have no name. But the Jedi like you might call me… Sith.
The Stranger, also known as "the Master," was a mysterious Sith who sought to train an acolyte.
By the later period of the High Republic Era,
and abandoned the Jedi Order, keeping himself out of Rwoh's reach.
The individual, who claimed to have no name
and thus became known as "the Stranger,"
The Stranger kept his identity well-hidden
and sought to see the dream of the Jedi Order overthrown.
It was his ultimate hope to wield his power however he wished.
where he could operate without the knowledge of the Jedi.
in the shadows around the Stranger's dwelling. Combined with the Stranger's reluctance to call himself a Sith, the dark side user's true loyalties thus remained elusive, especially as they related to Plagueis.
Freedom. The freedom to wield my power the way I like. Without having to answer to Jedi like you. I want a pupil, an Acolyte.
Mae-ho Aniseya was trained as an acolyte and Sith assassin by the Stranger.
In time, the Stranger sought out a disciple to train
his decision was to train a Sith acolyte,
a position that, in theory, would exist outside the rule.
He eventually discovered a human woman named
With the Sith keeping his identity a secret,
Mae swore herself to and began to be trained by the individual, whom she knew only as "the Master,"
four Jedi involved in the Brendok mission
out of a misunderstanding and then covered up his actions.
Ultimately, Mae sought to please "the Master"
"Qimir" worked with Mae as a trader of rare goods
with Mae unaware he was none-other-than her mentor.
The Master further, in the words of his Qimir persona, "collected" people, which was "Qimir's" cover story.
The Stranger killed several Jedi in order to ensure that his identity as a Sith remained concealed.
Eventually, he demanded she slay a Jedi without a weapon as her final test. As per his wishes, Mae began a
to kill the four Jedi involved in her past, Masters Sol,
After the deaths of Indara and Torbin, with the former killed at her own hand with a knife but the latter having taken his own life when confronted by Mae, Mae learned that her sister was in fact alive,
which ultimately convinced her to abandon her life as the Master's servant during her
. Unknown to Mae, the Master himself had arrived
who she betrayed and left "trapped" in the woods—and would kill Kelnacca himself. Afterward, he engaged a grouping of Jedi under Sol who had journeyed to
slaughtering all but Sol over the course of the battle. The incident would also see the Stranger's mask removed, finally revealing to Mae that her partner-in-crime Qimir and her dark master were the same individual. The Stranger further revealed himself as a Sith to Sol.
A pupil of mine before he turned to evil.
Mae-ho Aniseya had fallen out with the Stranger, who directed his attention to her twin sister, Verosha Aniseya.
After Qimir's double identity was revealed and the Sith was swarmed by a grouping of
, Mae knocked out her sister and swapped places with her, returning to the Jedi transport with Sol. Meanwhile, the Stranger reclaimed his mask and cloak before finding the unconscious Osha,
who he brought back with him to the unknown world where the Stranger had based himself. Waking up in the Stranger's custody, Osha followed him as the man went out to take a swim and claimed his lightsaber, unaware that he was aware of her actions. Noticing how she thought killing an unarmed foe was not honorable, the Stranger managed to convince her into letting him live and divulged details of his past, attempting to tempt Osha into doubting the ideals of the Jedi and instead embrace his own. All the while, Sol discovered that Mae had swapped places with her sister and subdued her, leaving the orbit of Khofar and promising to save Osha from Mae's master once they had a chance to truly talk.
Just as Sol departed, a Jedi investigation team under Master Vernestra Rwoh arrived on Khofar, where they discovered the aftermath of the battle with the Stranger. Unaware of who had committed the massacre, Padawan
suggested that Sol had fallen to the dark side.
With all parties converging on Brendok once Sol returned to the world where all his troubles had began, as Sol activated his tracking beacon for the Jedi to follow him and Osha experienced a Force vision of his death on the planet, Sol and the Stranger began a
, after which Mae rejected the ways of anger and instead wanted to see Sol brought to justice for his crime: striking down her mother and lying about his actions. However, the revelation that her master had killed her mother broke Osha, who Force choked the Jedi Master—thereby killing a Jedi without a weapon—and bled his lightsaber.
Verosha Aniseya turned to the dark side and replaced her sister as the Stranger's new acolyte.
Osha accepted the station as the Stranger's acolyte, while Mae allowed her memory of her sister to be wiped so she could be handed over to the Jedi. As the Jedi party under Rwoh arrived too late to catch the Stranger, Rwoh blamed the murders of Kelnecca, Indara, and Torbin on Sol. Having sensed her former disciple's presence, however, she met with Mae and requested her aid in finding the Stranger. Meanwhile, Osha returned to the Stranger's island with him as his new acolyte,
all while Plagueis continued to lurk on the planet.
For a thousand years we have kept to the shadows, not afraid of the Jedi—but
powerful. The weak will meekly stand in regimented order. The Sith… One master. One apprentice. No more. For generations. Generations building to
The Sith remained hidden for a millennium, allowing the Jedi to believe that their ancient nemesis had gone extinct.
. Within the vision of a possible future, Skrye stated that the Sith were reborn and that something called the
was opening, all alongside the sound of a planet being torn in two and an explosion. The visions greatly worried Dooku, who also saw a glimpse of himself falling to the dark side as the apprentice of another Sith Lord, but Jedi Master
tried to ease Dooku's concern by assuring him what he saw were merely possibilities, not certain futures.
Eventually, the Sith apprentice known as Darth Sidious
—the same Sith glimpsed by Dooku in his vision
—betrayed his master Darth Plagueis, by killing him in his
, seizing the status of master for himself as he forwards a plot to destroy the Jedi.
Thus, generations after the fall of the Sith,
Sidious moved to strike a fatal blow against the Jedi Order and the
Orchestrating his public persona's rise to the Republic's
and the creation of an army that would purge the Jedi, Darth Sidious fulfilled the return of Sith rule over the galaxy, giving rise to the
They have numbers on their side. And the faith of the Republic.
For the moment. In time, and with careful planning, they will lose both.
Darth Sidious and Darth Maul were the reigning Sith Lords by the time of the Invasion of Naboo.
The Sith remained a distant memory until the last years of the Galactic Republic when Darth Sidious and his apprentice,
Although Maul longed to avenge his ancient Sith forebears, he admitted that the Jedi Order was too powerful for the Sith to challenge directly, mainly due to the Jedi's superior numbers and the Galactic Republic's support for the Order. Sidious assured his apprentice that they would undermine the Order's strength with time and careful planning.
Darth Sidious infiltrated the Galactic Republic's government as Senator Sheev Palpatine of Naboo.
Sidious hid in plain sight as the unassuming
. His double identity allowed him to infiltrate and deceive the
as part of his agenda to accrue more political power at the expense of his
and homeworld. This allowed the Dark Lord to make a play for the galaxy's highest office in his civilian persona and sow the seeds of the Sith's revenge.
, but was defeated and left for dead by Padawan
Despite the loss of Maul, Sidious discovered a prospective apprentice in
a child whom the Force was exceptionally strong with. However, Skywalker been discovered and recruited by the Jedi Order.
Nevertheless, Sidious promised to monitor Skywalker's career, intending to turn the Jedi Order's prophesied Chosen One to the dark side of the Force.
Additionally, Sidious succeeded in his efforts as Palpatine to become
I told you everything you needed to know on Geonosis all those years ago, Kenobi. You should have joined me. Sifo-Dyas understood, he saw the future. That is why he helped me.
Count Dooku was a former Jedi who replaced Maul as Sidious' Sith apprentice, adopting the title of Darth Tyranus.
Following Maul's apparent demise on Naboo,
Darth Sidious approached the fallen Jedi Master Dooku, who had taken on the title of
, and offered him the chance to destroy the Jedi Order and reshape the Republic by becoming his new apprentice. Dooku agreed and was given the name Darth Tyranus, desiring both power and the elimination of the corruption that plagued the Republic.
and potential Sith apprentice while still apprenticed to Sidious.
The Sith chose a bounty hunter, Jango Fett, as the template for an army of clone troopers.
For nearly a decade after accepting Sidious's offer, Tyranus helped his new master to implement much of the groundwork necessary to begin the
, having foreseen a future conflict through the Force. The Sith took control of Sifo-Dyas' project, however, after arranging his assassination by the
which the Sith intended for the Jedi to lead.
An essential part of the Sith's plan was the
Darth Tyranus, under his public identity as Dooku, reentered the public eye in spectacular fashion, commandeering a Galactic Republic Holonet station in the
and delivering a rousing speech in which he thoroughly lambasted the corruption and shortcomings of the Republic. He then began to rally rebellious star systems to his cause and secretly allied himself with powerful commercial entities, resulting in the formation of the
The Separatist leadership was controlled by Tyranus, who in turn, answered to Sidious.
and the newly-formed Grand Army of the Republic fought over the desert-landscape of
after the extent of Tyranus' secret alliance with the
was revealed. Though the Republic was able to score a victory, Tyranus and the rest of the
In preparation for the upcoming galactic-scale conflict and its aftermath, Tyranus traveled to Coruscant's industrial district, known as
, where he met with Sidious and delivered the "good news" of the war's beginning, as well as presented him with the plans for the
I have good news for you, my Lord. The war has begun.
Excellent. Everything is going as planned.
During the Clone Wars, the Sith controlled the Galactic Republic and the Confederacy of Independent Systems.
, the Jedi transitioned from peacekeepers to
, ranks that they were formerly denied due to the Jedi Code.
During the war, Dooku was briefly captured by the
With most civilians in the galaxy unaware of what a "Sith" was,
indeed believed Dooku was simply a rogue Jedi who had broken away from the Republic. Upon hearing Dooku declare himself to be a Sith Lord, Ohnaka remained unconcerned and focused on the great bounty he would gain by ransoming the Separatist leader to the Republic.
However, Dooku ultimately escaped when Ohnaka was distracted by Kenobi and Skywalker, who were also captured to be ransomed.
Dooku decided against telling his master the details of the incident, believing it to be an embarrassment.
Savage Opress, the brother of Darth Maul, was briefly trained as the secret apprentice of Darth Tyranus.
On her tasks for the Sith, Ventress engaged Anakin Skywalker, Obi-Wan Kenobi, and
While loyal, she was ultimately betrayed by her Master on the orders of Darth Sidious. Dooku soon after traveled to Dathomir to meet with the Nightsisters in hopes of finding a new apprentice.
Dooku and the Nightsisters eventually decided on a young
, brother of the long-presumed dead Darth Maul. However, Asajj Ventress sought revenge for Dooku's treachery and used Opress as a means of attaining her goal.
Torn between two demanding masters, Opress eventually turned on both Dooku and Ventress.
Returning to the Nightsisters, Opress found that his brother, Maul, had not been killed as previously believed.
Maul had survived his injuries on Naboo because of his sheer reliance on the dark side and was living in the junk heaps of
. However, Maul's tragic events had driven him to insanity. He remembered only one word: "Kenobi." Guided by an
Opress was able to return Maul to the Nightsisters for treatment. Now fully healed by the Nightsisters' magic and given a pair of new robotic legs, Maul began a hunt for the man who had nearly destroyed his life, Obi-Wan Kenobi.
Sidious killed Opress and captured Maul, ending their claim to the Sith mantle and enforcing the Rule of Two.
His revenge scheme eventually ended with Maul's
. However, Darth Sidious sensed his former apprentice's action and his stance as a potential rival, and
to Mandalore to put an end to it. He killed Opress and took Maul captive,
locking him away in an old mountaintop prison known as
, in an elaborate Sith gambit to settle a longstanding and deadly dispute with the Nightsisters.
Moraband, the Sith homeworld. The Jedi Master encountered an illusory spectre of the ancient Sith Darth Bane, who was buried on the barren planet and battled Sidious on a spiritual plane as the result of an ancient, arcane Sith
. Through his experience, Yoda gained a new enlightenment about the Force that the Sith did not foresee.
Good is a point of view, Anakin. The Sith and the Jedi are similar in almost every way, including their quest for greater power.
The Sith rely on their passion for their strength. They think inwards, only about themselves.
The Jedi are selfless. They only care about others.
After Tyranus' death, the Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker became Sidious' new apprentice as Darth Vader.
After three years of the Clone Wars, Darth Sidious' grand scheme was almost complete. He
and betrayed Count Dooku to a violent killing by Anakin Skywalker, to manipulate the young Jedi. As Palpatine, he told Anakin a Sith
about Darth Plagueis the Wise. Plagueis, through the dark side, had gained the ability to keep people from dying until his apprentice killed him in his sleep. This story entranced Anakin, who was desperate to learn this power to save his wife, Padmé Amidala.
Eventually, Palpatine revealed himself as Sidious and converted Anakin to the dark side. Jedi Master
the Dark Lord but was killed after Anakin betrayed Mace and the Jedi. After this, Anakin pledged himself to service under his new Sith Master, Sidious, and became Darth Vader.
Once more the Sith will rule the galaxy, and we shall have peace.
With the fall of the Jedi, the Sith returned to power through Sidious' ascension as Emperor of the Galactic Empire.
With Windu's attack and a new Sith apprentice at his side, Sidious realized this was the perfect opportunity for him to destroy the Jedi. He ordered Vader to lead the
. With Vader at the temple, Sidious unleashed order 66, which led to the Clones' biochips activating and brainwashing them into murdering the Jedi.
Thousands of Jedi across the galaxy were then betrayed and killed by their clone troopers. Prior to Vader arriving on Mustafar to execute the Separatist Council, Sidious tricked the council into believing that Vader would protect them. After Vader slaughtered the Separatists, Vader followed Sidious's third order by shutting down the droid army, which ended the Clone Wars. In the political arena, he reorganized the Republic using the powers given to him as a result of the Clone Wars to transform the Galactic Republic into the Galactic Empire to restore the Sith Empire, installing himself as
. Once more, the Sith ruled the galaxy, unbeknownst to all but the few surviving Jedi.
And my apprentices? Darth Maul was a loss, but Darth Tyranus…he was a proton torpedo. He served his purpose and was gone. I had a…
candidate in mind. We did it, Vader. The Jedi destroyed! The Republic a shattered corpse for me to resurrect as a puppet! And you, Vader—the boy transformed into the man you were destined to be…
The Sith ruled the galaxy for a generation, consolidating the Empire and hunting the few Jedi who survived Order 66.
Following the reorganization of the Republic and
of the Jedi Order, Darth Sidious and Vader ruled over the First Galactic Empire for over twenty years until the
. The two Sith Lords established a cadre of Dark Side wielders known as the
The Inquisitors were tasked with hunting down Jedi Purge survivors and preventing
from becoming Jedi. The leading Inquisitor was a
The Inquisitors were trained by Vader and wielded double-bladed spinning
, and the mask that once belonged to Momin. Sidious had assured Vader that Momin's mask would guide him during his studies there. Whilst on the planet, Vader meditated in the
there. That was when Momin's mask possessed Roggo and Momin used his body to design a structure. When Brenne discovered this, she was shot dead, alerting Vader to the situation. Vader killed Roggo
Fortress Vader was a Sith stronghold constructed on Mustafar during the rise of the Empire.
Vader took it to the cave and reached into it using the Force. Momin revealed himself to Vader and told him his story, before attempting to possess him too. Vader resisted but came to let the mask take control of a
, giving Momin a body again. The two discussed the structure Momin had designed and Momin claimed it could tune the energies of the dark side locus on Mustafar, opening the door to the dark side that could resurrect Padmé Amidala. Vader subsequently agreed to let Momin build
In truth, Momin hoped to use the energies to resurrect his own body. As the
raged outside, Momin successfully revived himself.
In his duel with Vader, Momin insulted the current state of the Sith as "Jedi-obsessed weaklings," remarking that it saddened him and further claiming it disgusted the dark side itself. Vader, in the end, triumphed over the ancient Sith and killed Momin once more. All the same, his mask survived again
and was returned to Sidious by Vader, who tried and failed to use the portal to resurrect Amidala. For its failure, he destroyed the gateway.
Nevertheless, the incident had concluded with Vader fully committing himself on the path of the dark side.
The insurgents on Ryloth failed in their efforts to assassinate the Emperor and his apprentice.
Five years after the end of the Clone Wars, the
to assassinate the Emperor and Vader. Cham wanted to kill the two Sith Lords to bring about the demise of the Empire. However, Sidious had anticipated Cham's move, and the two Sith eluded Cham's attempts to assassinate them. This operation dealt a major blow to the Free Ryloth rebels, who were forced deeper underground, and also led to the exposure of Colonel
. Despite Sidious' hopes, he failed to stamp out the sparks of the growing rebellion.
Among those opposed to Palpatine's rule was
, who maintained the cover of an innocent artifact collector and dealer while secretly building up a
Among the artifacts in Rael's collection were a Sith holocron he kept in the back of his
Galactic Antiquities and Objects of Interest
After the outbreak of the Lothal insurgency about four years before the
, Sidious dispatched Vader to hunt down the
, who were part of the growing rebellion. Vader lured the Spectres into a
on the Phoenix fleet which destroyed the rebel flagship
but failed to destroy the rebellion. During the skirmish, Vader discovered that his former apprentice Ahsoka Tano was still alive. Under Sidious' orders, he dispatched more Inquisitors to hunt down the Jedi Purge survivor
The power within will soon serve the Emperor.
Darth Vader was sent to an ancient Sith temple on Malachor, where he intended to secure its power for his Sith Master.
had attempted to capture Bridger, Jarrus, and Tano. Vader remarked that the Emperor would be pleased with their discovery. When the Fifth Brother remarked that the power of the Jedi was growing, Vader responded that it would be their undoing.
The Sith Lords later took an interest in the Sith temple on Malachor, which was reputed to be home to a weapon capable of destroying all life. Vader sent another Inquisitor called the
Bridger, Jarrus, and Tano encountered the former Sith apprentice Maul—who was the "shadow" that Vader sent the Eighth Brother to hunt—in the Malachor Sith Temple. Maul had become stranded on Malachor several years prior and had discovered a secret inside the Sith temple that would allow them to destroy the Sith. However, he lacked the strength to do so on his own. Maul managed to befriend Ezra and the two Force-wielders succeeded in obtaining the Sith holocron. Maul later helped the Jedi drive several Inquisitors away. Despite Jarrus and Tano's distrust, Maul managed to convince them to help him by teasing the opportunity of destroying the Sith once and for all.
Ahsoka Tano confronted Darth Vader in the Malachor temple, and discovered his former identity as her Jedi mentor, Anakin Skywalker.
Maul convinced Ezra to place the Sith holocron in the obelisk at the top of the temple complex. He then helped Jarrus and Tano kill the Inquisitors before turning on both of them. Eventually, Maul blinded Jarrus. Despite this, the Jedi Knight defeated Maul in combat and pushed him off the edge of the temple. Meanwhile, Ezra discovered that the Sith holocron was the key to reactivating the Sith temple, which was a powerful superweapon capable of destroying life. Shortly later, Darth Vader arrived to claim the temple's power for the Sith. Darth Vader fought with Ahsoka while Jarrus and Bridger removed the holocron; triggering the temple's implosion. Bridger and Jarrus escaped the temple, but Vader and Tano were trapped inside when the Temple began to implode. Vader and Tano survived and parted company.
Later, Bridger came under the influence of the Sith Holocron, which was inhabited by an entity called
. Under the holocron's guidance, Ezra learned more aggressive combat techniques including forcing an
to attack his comrades and walk his machine off a bridge. Bridger's use of the Sith Holocron strained relations with his master Jarrus, who confiscated it. Jarrus later met a powerful Force-wielder called the
, who formed a middle ground between the light and dark sides. He advised Jarrus that an object could be used for both good and evil and that only the person had the power to change it. Jarrus left the Sith holocron in the Bendu's care.
The former Sith Lord Maul enlisted the unwitting aid of Padawan Ezra Bridger in his quest to find Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi.
Maul, who was revealed to have survived the events on Malachor, later
Jarrus and Bridger's rebel friends and used them as hostages to force the two Jedi to bring him the Sith holocron and
. Jarrus and Bridger recovered the Sith holocron from the Bendu, who warned them that Maul planned to combine the power of the holocrons to provide clarity of vision. After rendezvousing with Maul, Bridger and the former Sith combined the two holocrons. Bridger wanted to find a way to destroy the Sith while Maul was looking for hope. The holocrons projected a vision of
, an old enemy of Maul, and offered to show Bridger the "key" to destroying the Sith. However, Jarrus convinced his apprentice to look away, and the two holocrons separated. Maul took the opportunity to escape into space.
Bridger refused to become Maul's apprentice and attempted to find Kenobi, believing he held the key to the Sith's destruction.
Using the fragments of Bridger's memories in his mind, Maul tracked the rebels down to their
. Using the dark side of the Force, Maul manifested in Bridger's visions. Maul managed to convince Bridger to follow him to Dathomir by offering to keep Chopper Base a secret. At the
, Maul and Bridger underwent a ritual to uncover the remaining fragments of the holocrons in each others' minds. After drinking a magic potion, Maul learned that Master Kenobi was still living on the
with twin suns while Bridger learned that Kenobi held the key to destroying the Sith. The two were then attacked by the spirits of the Nightsisters, who demanded payment in flesh and blood for their services. Jarrus and the
arrived to confront Maul but were possessed by the spirits. Bridger and Maul managed to flee outside the lair. When Maul offered Bridger a place as his apprentice, the young Jedi refused to abandon his friends. After exorcising Jarrus and Wren, the three resolved to find the planet with twin suns and to reach Kenobi before Maul could kill him.
We kept the skeleton of the Republic for nearly twenty years while the Death Star was constructed. Twenty years, my apprentice. All that planning is now a layer of dust orbiting around Yavin. Now, we no longer have the Senate to hold order. We do not have the Death Star to force it. Our greatest weapon is gone. Our production is in ashes. We are besieged. In all these years, we have never skirted closer to disaster.
The Death Star was a superweapon loosely based on an ancient Sith design.
In the years leading up to the Battle of Yavin, the Empire faced a growing rebellion that had grown into the
. In secret, the Emperor commissioned the building of the
, a massive superweapon capable of destroying entire worlds. After rebel elements
and one of the offspring of Anakin Skywalker. Shortly thereafter, the Emperor dissolved the
presided over Alderaan's destruction in the presence of Princess Leia. Before they could terminate Leia, she was rescued by a group of travelers including Anakin's son
, and the Jedi Master Kenobi. While the other rebels escaped aboard the
, Kenobi sacrificed his life to delay Vader. Leia and her rescuers retreated to the rebel base on Yavin 4. The Death Star traveled to Yavin base in a bid to destroy the Rebel Alliance once and for all but this plan was ruined by a rebel
force. During the Battle of Yavin, Vader sensed that the Force was strong in the rebel pilot Skywalker; who fired the missile that destroyed the Death Star, Vader, however, survived the destruction.
The Sith sought to prevent Luke Skywalker from becoming a Jedi by turning him to the dark side of the Force.
Three years after the events on Yavin and following the
, the Emperor disclosed that Luke was one of the offspring of Anakin Skywalker, though this was something Vader already knew. Vader believed that Luke would be a powerful ally if he could be turned. The Emperor charged Vader with winning Luke over and destroying him if he refused to turn to the dark side. During that time Luke had traveled to
, where he had been trained by Yoda, a Jedi Master who was once the leader of the Jedi Order. Vader managed to capture Leia, Han, C-3PO and Chewbacca in
. Sensing the danger that his friends were in, Luke left his training and traveled to Cloud City where Vader was waiting for him. During their
, Vader severed Luke's right hand and revealed that he was Luke's father. Despite the pain, Luke refused to join Vader, threw himself down a
Now, fulfill your destiny and take your father's place at my side.
Never. I'll never turn to the dark side. You failed, Your Highness. I'm a Jedi, like my father before me.
Construction of the second Death Star was overseen by both Sith Lords in the days leading up to the Battle of Endor.
In secret, the Emperor directed the building of a
. In an attempt to destroy the rebellion once and for all, the Emperor arranged for intelligence on the second Death Star to be leaked to
spies. Using this information, the Rebel Alliance made preparations to launch an attack on the second Death Star. Before the Battle of Endor, Vader traveled to the second Death Star to warn
to accelerate construction. Shortly later, Sidious traveled to the battle station to oversee the final construction stages.
of Kenobi about Vader's claims on Bespin, and accepted that the Sith Lord was in fact his father, Anakin Skywalker, after his mentors confirmed it. Luke accompanied the Rebels to Endor with the intention to confront Vader, believing that he could help the former Jedi return to the light side. Likewise, the Emperor sought to turn Luke to the dark side in order to replace Vader as an apprentice. On the second Death Star, Luke confronted Sidious who wanted to provoke Luke's anger by having the Imperial Navy engage the Rebel fleet, thus putting his friends' lives at risk.
The prophecy of the Chosen One came to pass when Sidious and Vader died as the last Sith Lords.
Luke and Vader engaged in a lightsaber duel while the Emperor observed from his throne, still encouraging the Jedi apprentice to use the dark side. Luke gave into his anger after Vader learned of his sister's identity and threatened to turn her to the dark side. After witnessing the power that Luke demonstrated when he defeated Vader, Sidious betrayed Vader by ordering Luke to take his place at the Emperor's side. Luke, however, steadfastly refused in turn. Realizing Luke was a true Jedi, and would not be swayed, Sidious attempted to kill him through
. However, Vader, torn between his loyalty to his master, his old Jedi connections, and his son, ultimately threw the Emperor down a
shaft, killing him and returning balance to the Force. With his life-sustaining armor badly damaged from the Emperor's Force lightning, Darth Vader died, but his selfless act allowed him to rejoin the Force as a Force spirit, and be "reborn" as his old self, Anakin Skywalker. Thus, the Sith Order, along with their tyranny was no more,
as foretold by the ancient prophecy that predicted their downfall.
Through the ages, I've seen evil take many forms. The Sith. The Empire. Today, it is the First Order.
Despite its destruction, the Sith Order was venerated by various Sith cults throughout the galaxy.
While the Sith Order was defeated at the Battle of Endor, it was merely one of many denominations of Force-worshiping religions that existed throughout galactic history. The Sith's ancient legacy as enemies of the Jedi and, at times, rulers of the galaxy, would continue to be felt in the decades that followed its extinction. The downfall of the Sith at Endor left behind a vacuum that others sought to fill, such as the
Thus, while the ancient prophecy that foretold the destruction of the Sith came to pass, it did not foretell the destruction of the darkness, for as long as there existed light, there would always be shadow.
Immediately following the deaths of Darth Sidious and Darth Vader, many individuals and groups still adhered to their philosophy.
to the late Sidious, was an admirer of the Sith interrogation methods, as well as their teachings and cunning. He believed that the remaining
had to retreat "beyond the veil of stars," to the Unknown Regions, to search for the source of the dark side that Sidious had come to feel reaching out to him.
, to destroy them, believing this returned the relics to their deceased owners.
The Acolytes eventually collapsed, but one of their members,
, was corrupted by the mask of Viceroy Exim Panshard and the promises the dead Sith gave her if she could bring him to Exegol.
Rieve adopted a Sith-inspired persona during her time with the Hunters of the Outer Rim.
, where she would adopt the onstage persona of a Sith Lord. In that act,
she wielded a red lightsaber and owned a suit of
While in private the two would grow close,
a droid programmed to believe he was a Jedi.
Their rivalry was even made the subject of the first edition of
, where the Arena refreshed fans on the concept of the Sith.
After challenging J-3DI to a battle on one occasion and quickly walking out of interview with Arena announcer
, who claimed to fans Rieve was a Sith Master,
Rieve won the "epic battle" against J-3DI, which Arena News claimed brought glory to the Sith. Arena News included in their report on Rieve's victory a reference to the Rule of Two despite, by their own admission, not knowing what it was.
Rieve made an effort to learn more about the Sith, but she admitted there was not much about the order in the records she reviewed. She did, however, know of Maul and uncovered a reference to his brother Savage Oppress in Sith-related records.
At last the work of generations is complete. The great error is corrected. The day of victory is at hand. The day of revenge. The day of the Sith.
Darth Sidious was resurrected when his essence transferred to an imperfect clone of his original body.
Although Darth Sidious perished at Endor, the Sith Lord was able to cheat death, using the dark side of the Force to escape from his falling original body into a cloned body far away from Endor,
and returned. Sidious settled on the hidden world of the Sith in the
, along with a cult of followers, the Sith Eternal.
However, the cloned body was unable to withstand Sidious's power and, as a result, it physically decayed, requiring it to remain connected to cybernetic components, such as an
in order to be sustained and move. On Exegol, the Sith Eternal oversaw the building of the largest
, and technologists were able to flee into the Unknown Regions, where they established the
Snoke was a strandcast that Darth Sidious created and used as a proxy to rule the First Order.
The Sith Eternal created artificial clone
, Strand-Casts, and bioengineered abominations
though the First Order was unaware of Snoke's true origins nor of the existence of the Sith Eternal
and the fact that their former Emperor was apparently alive in some form.
Snoke held a strong connection the dark side of the Force and became a master of its ways,
Such a thing gave him the ability to be a useful pawn for Sidious to use as a way to influence galactic events from the shadows of Exegol, and build
with Snoke's knowledge saving the faction from ultimate destruction.
Skywalker sensed a growing darkness in the Force
upon learning from the ghost of his father it was the planet at the center of his visions. At the same time, Kiza and the spirit of Panshard carried on in their own search for Exegol, while the Sith assassin
sought out Rey on the orders of the Sith Eternal and Sidious. After
, which destroyed the Sith viceroy for good, Skywalker believed the disturbance was at an end, but his friend
for any signs of Ochi, who truly had died in the
who had been kidnapped by the First Order,
and any signs of Rey. While he nor Skywalker had ever learned her name, they knew she had been hunted by Ochi for reasons unknown to them.
Once reborn as Kylo Ren, he was mine to control. From the shadows, I shaped him into a worthy apprentice—not a true Sith but equally as powerful in the dark side.
Darth Sidious' machinations brought about the rise of Kylo Ren, whom Snoke trained in the ways of the dark side.
presented Darth Sidious with another opportunity to convert a member of the
to the dark side of the Force. As the grandson of Darth Vader, Solo was born with raw and powerful connection to the Force. As such, Sidious planned to turn Solo to the dark side through Snoke, whom he used as a proxy for Solo.
In time, Snoke turned Solo to the dark side.
Solo's fall to the dark side occurred after several events, including when he thought his uncle Luke Skywalker tried to kill him,
. Solo succumbed to darkness, killing Ren, changing his name to Kylo Ren, and becoming the new
of the Knights of Ren, an enclave of dark side users.
he was strong with the Force. Snoke took Ren as his apprentice and trained him in the ways of the dark side, but Sidious considered himself to be the true master of Ren.
Elsewhere, Skywalker went into a self-imposed exile, his location unknown to the galaxy.
Kylo Ren's path to power through the dark side was inspired by the legacy of Darth Vader, his grandfather.
Kylo Ren pledged to finish what his grandfather Darth Vader had begun, although Supreme Leader Snoke scorned the sentimentality of Vader, which he believed had led to the Empire's downfall. Ultimately, Ren hoped to build an immunity to the light, and succeed where Vader failed.
Luke Skywalker, Ren's former master and the last Jedi, once blamed the Jedi Order for Darth Sidious' rise to power.
Unbeknownst to Ren, his training in the dark side was monitored by Sidious. The Dark Lord regarded Ren as a worthy apprentice and the heir to Vader. Although he did not view Ren as a true Sith, Sidious confirmed that Ren was powerful with the dark side nonetheless.
, a galactic conflict that ensued between the First Order and the
During the First Order's initial invasion of the known galaxy from the Unknown Regions,
Ren discovered that he shared a powerful
, whom Luke Skywalker instructed in the ways of the Jedi.
Their connection led Rey to believe that Ben Solo could be redeemed from the dark side; although they succeeded in destroying Snoke and his
, Kylo Ren not only remained committed to the dark side, he usurped his master's title as Supreme Leader of the First Order. Ren denounced the legacies of both Jedi and Sith. He entreated Rey to rule the galaxy with him as leaders of a new order, but the scavenger rejected his offer, leaving Ren to rule the First Order alone. Ren attempted to annihilate his enemies during the
, having vowed to destroy the past and all elements of defiance to his rule, but through the
of Luke Skywalker, Rey and the Resistance escaped from Ren's forces.
Darth Vader never allowed himself to forget his past, filled with horrors though it was. His loss, his pain, his
at the things that happened to him became his fuel. He never looked back, but he never let go either. This is why the dark side ran so strongly through him. I can tell you how he did it. I can tell you how he turned his past…into his
this, boy. You wouldn't have come here if you didn't. You're
Kylo Ren would undertake a journey to discover the history of his grandfather, hoping to learn how Darth Vader converted his pain into a source of dark power.
yet his training in the dark side was based on Sith teachings and practices, such as the Sith trial of ascendancy which Ren completed by killing his father,
Furthermore, Ren killed Snoke in an act that was worthy of the Rule of Two.
However, not even Snoke's death succeeded in ending the conflict within Ren, who was a product of both Jedi and Sith teachings.
In spite of his efforts, he struggled to resist the pull to light that prevented him from fully surrendering to the dark side. Ren looked to the memory of his grandfather, Darth Vader, as a source of inspiration for his own journey to the dark side, yet he remained fearful of never growing as strong as Vader.
However, by the time of his accession as Supreme Leader, Ren was no longer certain that he wanted to follow in Vader's path.
In turning to the dark side, Ren had forsaken all that he once cherished in exchange for an isolated existence—devoid of love and friendship—that he spent with a master whom he hated and followers that he did not trust.
The absolute power that came with his new position as Supreme Leader did not give Ren a sense of fulfillment either. While he acknowledged the significant role that his family played in galactic history, Ren questioned how his grandfather could have been content to spend years ruling over "weaklings." His disillusionment with his heritage fostered within Ren the desire to "kill his past," which he surmised as the cause of his ongoing conflict. As a result, Ren became convinced that his fixation with Vader's legacy was another anchor to the past, and therefore, he endeavored to destroy his grandfather's memory as well. But upon meeting
in Fortress Vader on Mustafar, Ren became tempted by the prospect of learning how his grandfather channeled the pain of his past into power with the dark side. Vaneé mocked Ren's rejection of his legacy, but having spent a lifetime in service to the Dark Lord of the Sith, he offered to serve the grandson and heir of his late master.
You are nothing! A scavenger girl is no match for the power in me. I am
The Final Order was discovered by Ren when he confronted the Emperor in his citadel on Exegol.
Supreme Leader Kylo Ren found Exegol, where he discovered Sidious, the Sith Eternal and its fleet, the Final Order, which he planned to unleash on the galaxy in order to establish a new Sith Empire. He further revealed to Ren that Rey was his granddaughter as the daughter of his
, both of whom Sidious had killed. Sidious offered Ren the Sith fleet and a new Sith Empire if he killed Rey. Ren later informed the
believed it could be used to increase their forces tenfold for their ultimate push towards galactic conquest. After Ren abandoned the First Order, General Pryde, a veteran of the Old Empire, was given command of the Sith fleet for swearing fealty to Sidious.
Rey arrived on Exegol to confront her grandfather in his throne room before an amphitheater of his followers, who chanted as Sidious spoke. Sidious told Rey he never planned to kill her, having manipulated Ren, but instead wanted her to take his place on the Sith throne. Sidious pressured her to sacrifice him, planning to use an esoteric power to transfer his spirit into her body.
During his temptation, Sidious showed Rey the unveiling
, which erupted as a result of Rey sending the coordinates to Exegol to her friends in the Resistance. Although the Resistance was initially outnumbered by the Sith Eternal forces, they were reinforced by a
With his strength restored, the Emperor assured his followers that the return of the Sith was inevitable.
A returned Ben Solo arrived on Exegol, who went on to defeat the Knights of Ren and accompany Rey, standing side-by-side against the Dark Lord of the Sith. Sidious angrily grabbed the two using the Force and inadvertently drew some of their life force, which caused his body to begin healing; realizing that their connection was a dyad in the Force, Sidious
the life force of their bond to rejuvenate his body. Out of pure spite for the Skywalker bloodline, Sidious disposed of Solo into a nearby abyss. Sidious ascended the throne of the Sith, and used Force lightning to attack the Resistance and citizens' fleet.
The Sith tradition perished with the destruction of Darth Sidious and his followers during the Battle of Exegol.
Rey, strengthened by the spirits of the past Jedi, arose. Sidious proceeded to direct his lightning towards her, intent on killing her, but Rey defended herself with Anakin and Leia's lightsabers, deflecting the lightning back at Sidious, who disintegrated, destroying the Sith and unleashing an explosion that caused the entire amphitheater to crumble. Rey died, but Solo survived and climbed out of the pit, where he found Rey lifeless on the ground. Crawling to her, Solo gave his life force to resurrect her, and died shortly thereafter. Rey ultimately rejected her
; she took the Skywalker surname to honor the extinct
and remained a Jedi, permanently preventing the return of the Sith.
Without the Sith, the First Order faced a series of attacks as people
across the galaxy, inspired by the victory of the Resistance and the citizens' fleet at Exegol.
The Sith are people who are very self-centered and selfish. There used to be many Sith, but because they were corrupted by power and ambition, they killed each other off, so now there are only two - a master and an apprentice. Sith rely on their passion to get things done. They use their raw emotion, their hatred, their anger, their bitterness - which is the dark side of the Force. The Force is what binds the galaxy together, and it has a good side and a bad side. The Sith learned how to manipulate both sides of the Force, and then they fell into the trap of being corrupted by the dark side. The Jedi Knights are like marshals in the Wild West. It's their job to make sure everyone is protected, to bring peace. They are the enemy of the Sith, because the Sith want to dominate the galaxy, to control everything, and for a thousand years they have had a plot against the Jedi. So, in this movie, it is time for them to seek revenge against the Jedi for perceived injustices and to carry out that plot.
Sith was first mentioned in the 1976 novelization of
The Sith first appeared as the primary antagonists of
, the Sith are introduced as the "Black Knights of the Sith", a sect of mercenary warriors who used the "Bogan", the evil, dark side of the "Force of Others". According to the story, the Sith once were pirates, taught to the way of the evil side by a fallen "Padawan-Jedi" called Darklighter.
, the "Dark Lord of the Sith," a term cut from the original film.
, was the first film to use the word proper, and established key concepts including the Rule of Two. In addition, the origins and history of the Sith was explored by several non-
novellas. More recently, the canon television series
have touched upon the origins and history of the Sith.
, who has voiced Maul and Sidious in animation, opined the Sith do not believe in life after death. That is why they go to such extreme lengths to survive. However, the Jedi will sacrifice themselves as they believe their deaths can inspire others. "You have Darth Vader, who lives a terrible life, he lives a pathetic, tortured existence but it's still preferable to having nothing, which is how he views death. The same thing with Darth Sidious, you look at him in
. He's over 100 years old and is a bent, old man. But that's better than the alternative, which is nothing."
An appearance from the Force spirits of Darth Bane and
" was removed at the last minute by George Lucas since the Sith returning after death conflicted with his views on the Force.
As it shown in later episodes, transcending death as a Force spirit could only be achieved via the light side.
Nonetheless, members of the Sith sought to escape death through other means,
including Darth Sidious himself in both canon
, the Sith were not always an organized faction; at such a time, the title "Darth" did not exist. Christopher believes the Sith Lord Exim Panshard came from this era.
In the non-Canon animated television series
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
is identified as a Sith agent of Darth Sidious and Darth Vader.
, a cult dedicated to a deceased Sith Lord.
The High Republic Adventures: Quest of the Jedi
Star Wars Insider: The High Republic: Tales of Enlightenment
The High Republic: Race to Crashpoint Tower
The High Republic – Shadows of Starlight
The High Republic: Tears of the Nameless
The High Republic Adventures – Echoes of Fear
The High Republic Adventures – Echoes of Fear
Star Wars: The Prequel Trilogy – A Graphic Novel
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
Star Wars Adventures: The Clone Wars – Battle Tales
Galactic Tales: From The Shadows Come The Kran
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
Choose Your Destiny: A Clone Trooper Mission
Hyperspace Stories: The Bad Batch—Ghost Agents
Hyperspace Stories: The Bad Batch—Ghost Agents
Hyperspace Stories: The Bad Batch—Ghost Agents
Hyperspace Stories: The Bad Batch—Ghost Agents
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
Spark of Rebellion: A Star Wars Rebels Cinestory Comic
Darth Vader vs. the Rebel Fleet - Fearsome Fighter Pilot
The Mighty Chewbacca in the Forest of Fear!
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
A New Hope: The Princess, the Scoundrel, and the Farm Boy
The Adventures of Luke Skywalker, Jedi Knight
Princess Leia vs. Darth Vader - A Fearless Leader
Han Solo – Taking Flight for his Friends
Luke vs. the Death Star - X-wing Assault
The Weapon of a Jedi: A Luke Skywalker Adventure
The Empire Strikes Back: So You Want to Be a Jedi?
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Tales of Villainy: Invasion of Echo Base
(Appears as apparition, in Force vision and final page preview illustration)
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Luke Skywalker vs. Darth Vader – Join Me
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Return of the Jedi: Beware the Power of the Dark Side!
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Luke vs. Emperor Palpatine - Rise to Evil
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Star Wars Adventures: Shadow of Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Victory's Price: An Alphabet Squadron Novel
The Crimson Corsair and the Lost Treasure of Count Dooku
Tales from a Galaxy Far, Far Away: Aliens: Volume I
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: A Junior Novel
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: A Junior Novel
Star Wars: Tales from the Galaxy's Edge – Last Call
Tales from Wild Space: The Flat Mountain of Yavin
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
William Shakespeare's Star Wars: Verily, A New Hope
William Shakespeare's The Empire Striketh Back: Star Wars Part the Fifth
William Shakespeare's The Jedi Doth Return: Star Wars Part the Sixth
William Shakespeare's The Phantom of Menace: Star Wars Part the First
Star Wars Epic Yarns: The Empire Strikes Back
Star Wars Epic Yarns: Return of the Jedi
(Appears as Force spirit and in flashbacks)
William Shakespeare's The Clone Army Attacketh: Star Wars Part the Second
William Shakespeare's Tragedy of the Sith's Revenge: Star Wars Part the Third
LEGO Star Wars: Droid Tales Episodes I-III
(Appears as Force spirit and in flashbacks)
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
William Shakespeare's The Force Doth Awaken: Star Wars Part the Seventh
William Shakespeare's Jedi the Last: Star Wars Part the Eighth
William Shakespeare's The Merry Rise of Skywalker: Star Wars Part the Ninth
"Duel of the Droids" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"The Hidden Enemy" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Cargo of Doom" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Children of the Force" Episode Guide - The Clone Wars
(First identified as Sith Order, simultaneous with
Meet the Inquisitor, the Empire's Jedi Hunter | Star Wars Rebels
Helmets: Darth Vader, Master of the Dark Side
Highlights of the Saga: Duel in Cloud City
Cowboy Jedi: Freddie Prinze Jr. is Kanan Jarrus
Highlights of the Saga: Kidnap of the Chancellor
Highlights of the Saga: Birth of an Empire
Highlights of the Saga: Attack on Jabba's Palace
Highlights of the Saga: Palpatine Unmasked
Nute Gunray - Trade Federation Viceroy (TPM)
Highlights of the Saga: The Fall of the Jedi
Weapons & Uniforms: Citizens of Coruscant
Databank A-Z: Saw Gerrera–Commander Gree
Highlights of the Saga: The Capture of the
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle of Naboo
Weapons & Uniforms: The Supreme Chancellor of the Galactic Republic
Highlights of the Saga: Duel to the Death
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Databank A-Z: Queen Jamillia–Jedi Temples
Highlights of the Saga: Crash Landing on Coruscant
Highlights of the Saga: The Empire Strikes Back!
Highlights of the Saga: The Second Death Star
Highlights of the Saga: Escape from Utapau
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
Databank A-Z: Davish Krail–Kuat Drive Yards
Weapons & Uniforms: Citizens of Alderaan
Databank A-Z: Petranaki Arena–Proton Torpedoes
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle of Teth
Databank A-Z: Admiral Wiskovis–The Works
Highlights of the Saga: The Raid on Takodana
Highlights of the Saga: Escaping Cloud City
Databank A-Z: Sabe–The Separatist Council
Much to Learn You Still Have: 10 Things You Might Not Know About Mon Calamari
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
Highlights of the Saga: Help from an Old Friend
Entertainment Weekly's Ultimate Guide to Rogue One
Star Wars: Rogue One: The Ultimate Visual Guide
Weapons & Uniforms: Veterans of the Clone Wars
Droid Directory: 2-1B-series Medical Droids, Part 1
Droid Directory: LOM-series Protocol Droids
Building the Galaxy: The Weapon of a Jedi
Databank A-Z: Trident Assault Ship–Turbolasers
Star Wars Super Graphic: A Visual Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
Databank A-Z: VCX-100 Light Freighter–Veers
Star Wars: Geektionary: The Galaxy from A - Z
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: The Visual Dictionary
Behind the Cameras: Evolution of Stormtroopers
Star Wars Universe: Jedi vs. Sith: An Imbalance in the Force
Limited Edition Darth Vader Commander Expansion
Darth Maul and Sith Probe Droids Operative Expansion
Limited Edition Luke Skywalker Commander Expansions
Limited Edition Obi-Wan Kenobi Commander Expansions
Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles
Star Wars Lightsabers: A Guide to Weapons of the Force
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia, New Edition
Star Wars: How Not to Get Eaten by Ewoks and Other Galactic Survival Skills
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Galactic Guide
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
"The Phantom Apprentice" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Shattered" Episode Guide - The Clone Wars
Every Ship in the Star Wars Sequel Trilogy
Republic, Rebel, and Resistance Starfighters
The Battle of Hoth and the Second Death Star
The Final Order and the Battle of Exegol
"Aftermath" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
Tobias Beckett and Other Characters of the Underworld
Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy
Under the Helmet: The Legacy of Boba Fett
at 20 | Concept Artist Roel Robles on the Design Origins of Count Dooku's Unique Lightsaber Hilt
at 20 | Hayden Christensen Looks Back at His First Steps as Anakin Skywalker
at 20 | Rob Coleman on Bringing Yoda, Dexter Jettster, and More to Digital Life
at 20 | Costume Designer Trisha Biggar Reflects on Her Most Challenging Film
Obi-101: Everything You Need to Know About Obi-Wan Kenobi
10 of Obi-Wan Kenobi's Greatest Moments (So Far)
Obi-Wan Wednesdays: Reva Figure Revealed and More!
SWCA 2022: 6 Things We Learned From the Lucasfilm Publishing Fiction Panel
Obi-Wan Wednesdays: Find Ben Kenobi at Tibidon Station and More!
The Story Behind Lucasfilm and Volkswagen's Fantastic
The Story of the Ronin Continues and More from Marvel's September 2022
Obi-Wan Wednesdays: The Purge Trooper Joins Hasbro's Black Series and More!
Obi-Wan Wednesdays: Make a Deal with Hasbro's Teeka the Jawa from
Looking Back on the Series | Obi-Wan Kenobi | Disney+
You Can't Escape Poster Posse's Stunning
Star Wars: The High Republic: Chronicles of the Jedi
High Republic Phase II Deep Dive, Star Wars Celebration, and More!
Tales of the Empire | Official Trailer | Disney+
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
Star Wars Bestiary, Vol. 1: Creatures of the Galaxy
Star Wars: The High Republic: The Lightsaber Collection
Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy
Star Wars: The Acolyte: The Visual Guide
The Art of Star Wars: The High Republic: Volume II
NYCC 2025: All the News and Reveals from the Lucasfilm Publishing Panel
Prepare Yourself For Haunted Happenings in
13 Hilarious and Horrifying Highlights from
SWCA 2022: 7 Things We Learned from the Summer of LEGO
LEGO Star Wars Summer Vacation | Official Trailer | Disney+
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel
Star Wars Workbook: 3rd Grade Reading and Writing
Guide to the Galaxy: Yavin 4's Massassi Temple
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
"Artist Mike Mayhew's variant for #TheHighRepublic #7 features #DarthKrall. Fans of @CavanScott's "Dooku: Jedi Lost" this one's for you. Pre-sales begin Friday, July 2nd at 9am PST/12pm EST at
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
The High Republic – Shadows of Starlight
The Acolyte | Lightsaber Stunts | Disney+
creator says she has heard nothing about getting a potential season 2
Star Wars: The Acolyte: The Visual Guide
"Lost/Found" Episode Guide | The Acolyte
before the series' main events, equating to
: There Are Always Four – No More, No Less…
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
states that Dooku is twenty years old during the
, meaning that the mission must have occurred in
establishes that Darth Skrye held the title, they must therefore be a Sith Lord.
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
Star Wars Rebels: Visual Guide: Epic Battles
Darth Maul and Other Followers of the Dark Side
: 10 Easter Eggs We Found in Luthen's Gallery
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, Updated and Expanded
Star Wars: Exclusive New Image of Supreme Leader Snoke
The Making of Star Wars: The Definitive Story Behind the Original Film
Sam Witwer on Darth Maul's 'Clone Wars' Fate: 'He's Playing a Long Game' — Q&A
(In response to: "Do you know why Exim Panshard doesn't have "Darth" in his name?")
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures