This article has multiple issues and is in need of major additions and/or work.
It is requested that this article, or a section of this article, be expanded. ({{
Parts of this article have been identified as no longer being up to date. ({{
}}) The article needs to be updated with
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Solo: A Star Wars Story The Official Guide
Please help Wookieepedia by editing this article. Once you have fixed an issue, you may remove it from the list of issues. See this article's
You are stormtroopers. You are the keenest weapon in the Emperor's arsenal. Do not fail him. Do not fail me.
and often derogatorally referred to as "
, and their standard issue weapon was the
, stormtroopers served as reminders of the absolute power of the Empire. In addition, stormtroopers would serve with the
served as the first generation of stormtroopers, and were gradually replaced by Imperial recruits known as
was shut down as the Empire turned to conscription and voluntary recruitment in order to fill the stormtrooper ranks. The remaining clones were gradually retired from service due to their rapid aging, their legacy inherited by
who were also trained to render total allegiance to the
Stormtroopers were spread throughout galaxy, from the galactic
, enforcing widespread terror and mass oppression. These infantry fought many battles against the
who, disguised as stormtroopers, infiltrated the
of stormtroopers on Endor to protect the
, although they were defeated by the Alliance's
took control of the Empire, which rallied to his
, with its replacement of the New Republic consequently demobilizing stormtrooper forces.
The storm of history. As the galaxy transitioned from chaos to order, our regiment was created to maintain that order.
gives an account of the origin of the name "stormtrooper"
Stormtroopers were modeled on the clone troopers who fought for the Galactic Republic during the Clone Wars and were made to turn on the Jedi under Order 66.
, the first generation of stormtroopers consisted of
as well as the Republic, the clones were secretly
With the exception of a handful of survivors,
who orchestrated the Clone Wars and controlled the
was brought from chaos to order during to its rule, one account of the origins of the name "stormtrooper" was that it came from the troopers emerging from the "storm" of
enforcing law on the Republic capital of
onlookers began to refer to the soldiers as "stormtroopers."
Surely you realize the precarious state this newly formed Empire is in. Clone troopers will be needed to maintain order throughout the galaxy.
Indeed. A service conscription soldiers could provide at half the cost.
The skill level and efficiency of our clones is far superior to that of any recruited body.
After the Clone Wars, the remaining clone troopers became the first stormtroopers of the Galactic Empire.
Renamed "stormtroopers" and assigned their new role by
No longer beholden to the authority of Jedi
and with their loyalty enforced by their control chips,
the clones utilized brutal tactics under the leadership of
over the known galaxy as the first generation of Imperial stormtroopers.
Immediately, the Empire moved to remove sedition within its
, as clones were deployed to carry out the
who were subsequently claimed to be Jedi sympathizers.
The end of the Clone Wars, however, fulfilled the sole purpose behind the creation of clone troopers.
’s clone trooper program during his final years as Supreme Chancellor, his priorities changed from the expensive cloning production after aponting himself Galactic Emperor. The
, maintained that the clone troopers possessed unrivaled combat skills and discipline. In addition, Lama Su believed that his clones were critical to the security of the fledgling Empire. Despite this, Governor and
was confident the Empire would be better served by a force of recruits, which he saw as a cost-effective way to enforce order in the galaxy.
Clone troopers would enforce Imperial control over the galaxy, eliminating any threats to the new regime.
In addition, there were further incentives for the Empire to decommission its clone units in favor of
Further, their original purpose as soldiers of the now-replaced Republic made Imperial higher-ups uncomfortable.
Tarkin himself had noticed the individuality clones had developed under Jedi leadership, which made them unpredictable for Imperial purposes. As such, Tarkin sought a clean break from the Jedi-influenced past.
clone troopers were initially retained by the
but rumors spread throughout the ranks that the cloning facilities on Kamino had been shut down.
The city is filling up with soldiers in white armor. They call themselves STORMTROOPERS, and the Empire uses them to keep order on Lothal. They say they're here to protect us. What they're really here to protect are the factories, farms, and mines—to profit the Empire. They don't care about Lothal, or the people who work hard. They only care about what they're taking
of Lothal. What makes it worse is that, underneath those white stormtrooper helmets and black TIE fighter pilot helmets, a lot of the Imperials actually come from here. There are training academies set up now that turn good Lothal folks into soldiers of the Empire. I guess a lot of people here, being so used to living out on the edge of nowhere, signed up because they wanted to connect to something bigger. Can't they see what they're signing up for?
Vice Admiral Rampart would organize a task force of Elite Squad Troopers, enlisted recruits who would be trained by elite clones such as Commander Crosshair.
In the days following the end of the Clone Wars,
of non-clone human soldiers, led by the former
"Crosshair." Rampart envisioned enlisting human soldiers and having them train under skilled clones would be the best way to generate loyal soldiers without the cloning program. The squad included four highly skilled recruits enlisted to be the first wave of such soldiers. The individuals traded in their names for numbers, becoming
and undertaking early missions to eliminate insurgents throughout the galaxy,
in particular, pursuing the now-rogue Clone Force 99, Crosshair's old squad. The squad's success during their missions proved the potential of enlistment as the method to fill the ranks of the Imperial Army to Tarkin, who allowed Rampart to continue secretly enlisting more recruits under
. Though Tarkin supported Project War-Mantle, he believed the clone troopers would continue to remain essential until the Imperial Army was ready to retire them.
Clone stormtroopers were gradually supplanted as the Galactic Empire turned to the recruitment and conscription of birth-born human soldiers.
With the development of the new Imperial war machine under Project War-Mantle,
was produced to be used by the enlisted recruits. Massive stockpiles of this armor was stored on planets such as
in preparation for the influx of future recruits in the Stormtrooper Corps. Clone
were deployed as instructors to the enlisted troopers, who were assigned the designation of
. During the first year of the Empire's reign, a
, where fifty clone commandos were tasked with training the first thousand TK stormtroopers.
In order to fully cease clone production, Tarkin had Rampart
. The continued recruitment of non-clone troops and the destruction of Kamino was kept secret from the
, with the latter incident being covered up as the result of a cataclysmic storm.
Recruited stormtroopers began to see increased deployment in the place of their clone forebears as Project War-Mantle carried on.
. Also involved in the operation were clone troopers from the last Kaminoan batch, with the newly deployed clones having been assigned to Darth Vader and the
Recruited stormtrooper soldiers were also deployed in the place of clones to worlds like the Outer Rim planet
which in specific saw a large number of TK stormtroopers move into occupy its lands after a
for the Empire with the squad's commanding officer,
, watching in silence as the new soldiers took control. Cody had hoped to open diplomatic talks with Governor
, only for her to be executed at the order of the newly appointed Imperial Governor
Cody was unable to justify the Empire's actions and abandoned the Imperial Military. Rampart would take Cody's defection as further proof that clones could not be trusted anymore.
Once the Defense Recruitment Bill was approved by the Imperial Senate, TK stormtroopers would fully integrate into the Imperial Army, largely replacing clones as enforcers of the Empire.
With funding for Project War-Mantle secured and preparations well underway, all that remained to be done was for the clone army to begin its gradual decommissioning. To accomplish this, Rampart proposed the
to the Imperial Senate, which would see the Imperial Military officially transition from the clone army to a recruitment one. Though many in the Senate saw the creation of a new army as unnecessary, others supported the idea especially after the destruction of Kamino meant that fresh clone troopers could no longer be produced to protect the Empire. Due to an inability to reach an agreement, the Bill was tabled multiple times. However, testimony from Senator
exposed Rampart for what he did and ultimately led to his arrest, seemingly shelving the Bill once more however, Palpatine appeared before the Senate and expressed his belief that clones could no longer be trusted to form the entirety of the Imperial Military due to the Attack on Kamino. With this development, the Senate passed the Bill. The passing of the Bill jeopardized the future of the clone stormtroopers, who still comprised the bulk of the Empire's forces during the early Imperial Era. Though the Bill proposed pensions for the clones as they would gradually be rotated out of military service as they aged, many troopers wished to continue their military service.
Stormtroopers spread throughout the galaxy as the new face of the Imperial regime, with recruits growing to outnumber the clones as the Galactic Empire grew and expanded.
As the years passed, clone stormtroopers gradually became less and less common as many were either killed in action or rotated out of military service as they aged. As a result, the ranks of the Stormtrooper
who sought to carry on the legacy of the clones
By the later Imperial Era, it was rumored the
had been established within the Imperial
Nonetheless, several clones remained in service to the Empire during its later years despite their advanced aging, with some becoming instructors in the
while a smaller number remained in active duty such as
While we now consider the Imperial stormtrooper to have effectively been ever-present within the ranks of the military and on thousands of different worlds within the Empire, there was a time when they were relatively scarce. Stormtroopers were initially intended to be the elite corps of the new Imperial military.
By the time of the Galactic Civil War, however, stormtroopers had been almost entirely incorporated as the primary infantry of the Empire and were regularly deployed to systems across the galaxy, while also manning countless starships of the Imperial Navy.
The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
Stormtroopers were deployed alongside Imperial army troopers just before the outbreak of the Rix Road Riot on Ferrix.
During the Emperor's reign, stormtroopers were used to bring any remaining Separatist
force of the early Empire, often consisting of local planetary defense forces conscripted into the
—as mainline combat troops and security forces.
the white armored troopers served as the backbone
With a lack of jobs and opportunity in the wake of the Clone Wars, posterity would later come to criticize an "aimless generation" as complicit in abetting the rapid militarization and recruitment of the Imperial war machine:
with an entire generation growing up under Imperial rule,
a number of recruits had been indoctrinated into Imperial thinking since their childhood and thus joined with the Stormtrooper Corps willingly.
Stormtroopers would enforce Imperial law on occupied worlds, such as Lothal.
Propaganda resulted in people from occupied planets joining into the Corps out of fear and with ambitions of power.
Additionally, some stormtrooper recruits were people from disfranchised worlds who, by future Jedi Padawan
's reading of the situation, wanted to be part of something bigger than themselves and thus willingly joined the Empire. Bridger, however, was disturbed people from his homeworld
would join with the Empire that changed their world.
The Stormtrooper Corps training turned those who became stormtroopers into loyal followers of the Empire's will;
while some stormtroopers would desert over the Empire's history,
the Stormtrooper Corps was full of loyal Imperial soldiers who would kill any rebel they spotted, no matter the background from which they joined the corps.
Acting as Commander-in-Chief, Darth Vader often commanded stormtrooper legions.
often coordinated the stormtroopers' operations in the field whenever his personal presence was required, with the stormtroopers addressing him by his noble title of
The commitment the stormtroopers displayed to Vader bordered on worship.
Although he had a rapport with his stormtroopers,
Vader was still willing to execute the troops under his command
as he did with many other subordinates. During
, a joke spread throughout the ranks that Vader only kept stormtroopers on the
to drag out the bodies of those he executed. However, the joke lost all humor quickly, as the
's wrath became all too real for many of his subordinates.
Stormtroopers on Lothal would combat the Specters, a local rebel cell, in multiple engagements.
Per their swear to demonstrate absolute loyalty to the Empire in the Emperor's name, stormtroopers carried out some of the worst crimes committed by the Empire.
Ultimately, stormtroopers came to represent the face of the Empire, but the soldiers were opposed by a
that sought to restore the rule of the Republic to the galaxy.
before the aspiring Jedi and his teammates joined the growing Rebellion.
We follow orders. It's the sum and extend of our existence. Say kill, and we will. Say die, and our arms fly up and take the blasterfire on full. Watch our pointless existence extinguished on command.
, stormtroopers served in the Galactic Civil War, a conflict that the Empire ultimately lost.
was the first major rebel victory of the
Additionally, Stormtroopers were also used to arrest dissidents on numerous worlds including
while they were also deployed to other conflicts the Empire found itself in; stormtroopers and Imperial machines quickly put down a
Stormtroopers would combat the Rebel Alliance across the Galactic Civil War.
As the Galactic Civil War dragged on, the Stormtrooper Corps accelerated its training to ensure the Empire had more troops at its disposal.
For service in the Galactic Civil War, stormtroopers saw action against the Rebellion forces during engagements like the
Although desertion from the Stormtrooper Corps was rare,
the actions the Empire carried out during a
Additionally, stormtroopers who served under
At Endor, a legion of the Emperor's best stormtroopers ambushed rebel forces attempting to destroy the Death Star II, though they would soon become overwhelmed by the native Ewoks who allied with the rebellion.
of Palpatine's best stormtroopers in the
As stormtroopers fought on the ground of the
DS-2 Death Star II Mobile Battle Station
In the immediate aftermath of the battle, Rebel General
that began directly after the deaths of Palpatine and Vader at
on Tatooine, leaving the soldier to be digested within
was imprisoned. The trooper was vital for Fett's escape, as he used a breathing apparatus from the soldier's armor for oxygen before escaping.
Although disorganized in the wake of the Rebel victory at
Imperial loyalists rallied around high-ranking officials, such as
. The Alliance, having declared itself the
to root out the remaining Imperial strongholds on distant worlds, like
The Empire fell at the Battle of Jakku, and with its defeat the mobilization of stormtroopers was outlawed.
suppressed any knowledge of Palpatine's death, only to be met by an
was a ten-year veteran of the Stormtrooper Corps, though he felt no loyalty to the Empire.
By this time, stormtroopers were taken out of Academy training early to fill up Imperial ranks. As the war continued, many stormtroopers were captured and sent to the New Republic capital of
as prisoners of war. On one occasion, the New Republic public relations official
personally stopped New Republic soldiers from parading stormtrooper prisoners through the streets of
The Empire fell. With it fell order. With it fell law. They're never coming back. It's taken me a while to realize that—I think I was grieving. I've accepted it now, though. I know what it means. I can do anything I want.
―Terex, abandoning his life as a stormtrooper
With the victory of the New Republic against the Empire, some Stormtroopers defected from service and left their Imperial past behind.
after the defeat of its loyalist forces on
represented the Empire at the signing of the
. The terms of the peace treaty included the end of hostilities between the Empire and the New Republic, the dissolution of the Imperial government,
and the prohibition of the recruitment and training of stormtroopers. Additionally, the Empire was forced to dismantle its network of Imperial Academies.
However, not all of the Imperial remnants adhered to the treaty's conditions.
the remaining Imperial forces on Jakku continued to fight for several
, refusing to accept the Empire's defeat.
Terex only abandoned his life as a stormtrooper because he felt that, when the Empire had fallen, order had fallen. Declaring that he needed to adapt, he became the
wore suits made up of pieces made of Imperial gear, including armor pieces from stormtrooper armor and the armor from their variants.
competition, where he donned stormtrooper armor
and hoped to relive what he deemed the glory days of his service.
who refused to accept the defeat of the Imperial regime,
that was nothing more than an on-stage persona designed to draw attention.
The rise of the New Republic drove stormtroopers to the galaxy's outer reaches where they found work as mercenaries.
In the years that followed the civil war's conclusion, all that seemingly remained of the former Galactic Empire were the
who tried to carve out their own territory, with Remnant Stormtroopers appearing under them,
clinging to the last vestiges of Imperial power
, where the New Republic held little influence.
Despite the restrictions that the New Republic imposed on the defeated Empire, stormtroopers retained their battle-worn
making them look like an undisciplined mercenary force.
Nevertheless, some of these mercenary troopers worked alongside more pristine stormtroopers,
who were still regarded as "Remnant Stormtroopers"
but worked directly as part of the remnants of the fallen Empire. In particular, stormtroopers served with Imperial remnants like the
which contained an army's worth of stormtroopers.
Gideon's remnant was secretly part of a network of Imperial remnants operating under the
Did you not just hear that Moff Gideon killed a dozen of his own troopers to make a point?
The stormtroopers of Moff Gideon's Imperial remnant found themselves opposed to the Mandalorian Din Djarin, who took on their target, the infant Grogu, as his charge.
A mercenary group of Remnant Stormtroopers
who would be deployed to restore Imperial rule.
In the aftermath of Grogu's rescue, Djarin's
was nearly wiped out by the Imperial remnant,
which occupied the city with its mercenary stormtroopers.
with his allies to kill the Client, the Imperial and his
were instead killed when Gideon ordered his
wiping out the entire stormtrooper squad.
, composed mostly of pristine stormtroopers
" from Djarin. As the battle unfolded, mercenary and pristine stormtroopers would fight side-by-side against the Mandalorian and his allies, who were forced into the
. Nevertheless, they ultimately triumphed over the stormtroopers, but their victory came at the cost of the
, the latter having sacrificed himself to take out a
Although he had lost control of Nevarro,
Gideon escaped the planet to lead his remnant from his
, aboard which many stormtroopers and Imperial officers were stationed.
A force of Gideon's stormtroopers, stationed aboard a
, were lost when Djarin joined forces with Lady
The remnant maintained control of Nevarro's Imperial base until Djarin returned for repairs to his ship, the
the base to detonate it, fighting past the stormtroopers to escape in time. As he fled with his
. After Djarin took out the two fighters, he and Grogu departed for
Djarin ended up leading Gideon to Tython, where the Mandalorian was involved in a standoff with former bounty hunter Boba Fett and
, which saw the stormtroopers suffer heavily causalities before retreating. However, a
from Fett's armor, which the former hunter reclaimed from the
, destroyed both fleeing transports, wiping out the surviving stormtroopers. However, a team of
managed to capture Grogu and deliver him to Gideon's light cruiser, which then destroyed the
Stormtroopers served within a grouping of remnants on the world of Morak, where they unknowingly welcomed undercover enemies Din Djarin and Migs Mayfield.
the Mandalorian and his allies recruited former
the Morak Imperial remnants, which were based out of a
to use against the New Republic. Amongst the remnants were stormtroopers, shoretroopers, and
. Although they managed to secure the codes they needed to find Gideon's cruiser, Djarin and Mayfield were discovered when Mayfield executed his former
, for his comments about Operation: Cinder and the remnants' plans. Djarin and Mayfield fought past the base's detachment of
and stormtroopers, with Dune and Shand providing covering fire. Whilst escaping the base, Mayfield also fired upon its supply of
to damage the refinery. Allowing Mayfield to stay on Morak,
Aboard the cruiser, Shand, Kryze, Dune, and Mandalorian
fought past its stormtrooper complement,
and captured the bridge. Djarin, meanwhile, rescued Grogu and defeated Gideon in combat, inadvertently claiming the Mandalorian
in the process. The sudden arrival of Skywalker also wiped out
leaving the Moff to be taken to the New Republic to answer for his war crimes.
Before he made it to trial, however, Gideon
within his remnant who wore suits of beskar armor.
Grogu would train under Skywalker until the time
, within which he reunited with Djarin after deciding
he would rather return to his father figure than stay as a Jedi.
I don't think that this is an isolated episode. Nevarro has reported accounts of stormtroopers in the streets and TIE Fighters openly flying above. The citizens speak of Moff Gideon occupying the town, and now a pirate king is attempting the same thing? These events could all be connected.
There's something dangerous happening out there. All these events, it's not a coincidence. And by the time it becomes big enough for you to act, it'll be too late.
Imperial armored commandos were elite stormtroopers clad in beskar armor who served Gideon's Imperial remnant.
Following his rescue, Gideon hid out in a
As rumors of Gideon's survival swirled, the people of the now-independent Nevarro reported Gideon's occupation, including the role stormtroopers played, to the New Republic, with such statements convincing
that a wider Imperial conspiracy was growing in the Outer Rim Territories. He further pointed to a
who were secretly working with Gideon's remnant,
much as Teva feared. At Teva's urging, the Mandalorians of the Tribe—who had relocated to
, been joined by Bo-Katan Kryze, and decided to return to Nevarro to liberate it and live openly on the world—arrived on Nevarro and repelled Shard's forces,
much to Gideon's concern as it signaled the beginning of cooperation between Kryze's Mandalorians and the Tribe.
After Kryze reclaimed the Darksaber and resumed command over her Mandalorian resistance, the Tribe and Kryze's followers joined to
, with the group discovering further Mandalorian survivors on world. Gideon's remnant, which had secured reinforcements from the Shadow Council after he warned the Mandalorians would oppose their designs, revealed itself on Mandalore by attacking with its stormtrooper commandos, with Gideon himself donning a
and joining the battle. The united Mandalorians, however, managed to overcome Gideon's forces, with Djarin and Grogu wiping out his clone army before the Moff himself perished in the destruction of his base.
Afterward, the New Republic was made aware of Gideon's activity on Mandalore and subsequent demise.
The return of Thrawn promised to galvanize the Imperial remnants.
While many Imperial remnants were already secretly networked under the Shadow Council, their forces lacked proper leadership and remained divided by the council's squabbling, with Captain
holding back efforts to unite by promising Thrawn would soon return which would herald in the reemergence of the Imperial Military and give fellow council member
thanks to the actions of Bridger and the
. In time, Thrawn's stormtrooper forces had dwindled to only
Night Troopers were a dedicated legion of stormtroopers who served Thrawn during his exile.
However, Thrawn's Imperial remnant also allied with the
, Thrawn and his forces began rebuilding their Star Destroyer, the
, as part of a plan to return home with their aid.
energized Thrawn's stormtroopers, who became inhumanely persistent
Thrawn's living soldiers, the Great Mothers also had access to the
, which would enable them to reanimate any soldier who died. However, no Night Trooper was ever resurrected in front of Bridger, who avoided the Nightsister fortress and made a life for himself among the
Thrawn had, through the Great Mothers, managed to reach out to his servant Magistrate
herself a former Nightsister at the head of a
It became Elsbeth's responsibility to deliver Thrawn and his forces from exile, with Thrawn promising the Great Mothers he would bring them and cargo from their catacombs to the main galaxy with him.
through Imperial loyalists at her old factory on Corellia,
Elsbeth led her forces, among them mercenaries
, on an intergalactic hyperspace journey to the other galaxy
With Wren, Morgan and her allies united with the Great Mothers, Thrawn, and his stormtroopers on Peridea. As per his agreement with the Great Mothers, Thrawn ordered Enoch to have his stormtroopers start bringing the Great Mothers' cargo into the
since Elsbeth predicted the cargo transfer would take at least three rotations with the Grand Admiral thinking that was an acceptable timeframe.
Night Troopers cross paths with Ezra Bridger once more during the skirmish on Peridea.
With their arrival, Elsbeth's forces fell under Thrawn's command, with Enoch exercising command over her
Allowing Wren to venture into the wilderness to find Bridger, Thrawn also prepared two attack squads to follow Skoll and Hati to ensure Wren and Bridger were killed, declining Elsbeth's suggestion to send more soldiers because of his numbers.
In time, Tano and Huyang would also arrive above Peridea with a purrgil pod, although Thrawn, who entered into his command center under the guard of two Night Troopers, had Enoch call off a starfighter attack to play the long game and avoid wasting their
. Two Night Troopers continued to stand guard in Thrawn's command center as the Great Mothers found Tano's position in the debris field around Peridea, giving the
s under Enoch's command a chance to fire on her position and flush her out of hiding. While their fighters again pursued Tano's T-6 shuttle, which was heading far from Thrawn's position anyway to reunite with Wren, Hati reported Bridger's position and led the local
against the mobile Noti tribe, while Skoll departed his apprentice's company
Dispatched on Thrawn's order and arriving after the bandits had been taken out,
and reinforced Hati, surrounding Bridger and Wren under the counter-encirclement tandem. Quickly falling under Hati's command while Thrawn kept watch from afar via a droid, the stormtroopers ignored Bridger's attempts to negotiate and engaged Wren, Bridger, and the newly-arrived Tano. Without Skoll's assistance, Hati and the Night Troopers were overwhelmed by the three Jedi, forcing Thrawn to withdraw his troops and the starfighters pursuing the T-6, currently piloted by Huyang. The Night Troopers abandoned Hati, who fled on her
The blessing of the Great Mothers shall protect you in battle against the Jedi. Go, now. Let none pass.
They were. All were honored to make the sacrifice for you.
It is for the Empire. The security of our galaxy.
―Morgan Elsbeth and Grand Admiral Thrawn, after a group of Night Troopers volunteered to stay behind
against Tano and company a success because it distracted the Jedi,
thereby giving his stormtroopers time to finish the cargo transfer to the
into position—as the massive hyperdrive ring could fit around the
to deliver all aboard from exile—and dispatched two TIE fighters to engage Tano's T-6 shuttle. That attack grounded the shuttle—forcing Tano, Wren, and Bridger to race for the Nightsister fortress on howlers—and was reported to Thrawn, who prepared for their incoming ground assault. A grouping of Night Troopers, all of whom were honored to do so, volunteered to stay behind in the name of ensuring Thrawn's escape, which Thrawn took as a sign of their loyalty to the Empire, whereas Elsbeth—who was formally reinitiated into the Nightsisters by the Great Mothers as the Night Troopers finished the cargo transfer—saw it as an example of their personal loyalty to Thrawn. Told they had the "blessing" of the Great Mothers by Elsbeth and ordered to let no-one through, those Night Troopers remained in position for Tano, Wren, and Bridger.
The corpses of fallen Night Troopers arise thanks to the Chant of Resurrection and march against the Jedi attackers.
With Enoch and Elsbeth by his side, while the room remained guarded by two Night Troopers, Thrawn ordered the
the incoming Jedi, all of whom managed to survive. With their enemies closing in, the Night Trooper volunteers were dispatched to the fortress's lower levels and engaged the Jedi, who tricked the stormtroopers into drawing themselves out and thus took out the entire force. The corpses of the volunteers, however, were reanimated by the Great Mothers' use of the Chant of Resurrection, much to the shock of the three Jedi, who were unable to injure the reanimated soldiers.
The reanimated stormtroopers cracked their own bones as they arose and let out a number of undead groans
in pursuit of the Jedi, who sealed the undead behind heavy doors the Night Troopers needed to cut their way through. To protect the
, Thrawn's two undead death troopers kept Wren and Bridger from the departing destroyer's hangar at the top of the fortress while Tano dueled Elsbeth. The zombified death troopers managed to hold off Bridger and Wren as Thrawn, taking command of the
from its bridge with Enoch and the Great Mothers at his side, began his departure.
Beginning a new period of strife for the New Republic, Grand Admiral Thrawn and the stormtroopers under his command managed to escape to the galaxy during the battle of Peridea.
and another Night Trooper were stationed in the
s hangar when Wren, who managed to unlock her Force-sensitivity in the battle, and Bridger finally bested the death troopers. Moving to the edge of the hangar, both stormtroopers rushed to defend the
but quickly assumed they were safe because of the distance between the starship and the fortress. Wren, however, helped Bridger cross the divide with a Force push; LS-757 and the other trooper were unsure if the Jedi had made the jump until he leaped up from his landing place, quickly throwing the second trooper from the
LS-757 from her distance below. Meanwhile, the zombified Night Troopers had broken through the last of the doors and joined Elsbeth in attacking Tano, whom Wren stayed behind to help. The undead soldiers stayed back as Elsbeth engaged Tano atop the tower until Wren revealed herself; as the apprentice distracted the undead Night Troopers, Tano finished her duel with Elsbeth and slayed the Nightsister, whose death was felt by the Great Mother
and tower only having increased, Bridger was unable to go back for his friends and could only watch their battle with the zombie Night Troopers until
contacted LS-757 with news of incoming reinforcements. Bridger reacted quickly and took the trooper's suit of armor. While the news came as a shock to Klothow, Thrawn ordered the
to bombard the Nightsister fortress below, which was destroyed and took the undead Night Troopers with it. Wren and Tano, however, managed to escape when Huyang arrived in the T-6 in time. However, after Thrawn delivered a final message to Tano, the
would ultimately escape into hyperspace before the T-6 could catch up. Thrawn and his forces were thus delivered out of exile and returned to the main galaxy; while Bridger managed to slip away in LS-757's armor aboard an
with the Great Mothers and their cargo safely aboard. While the appearance of a figure in stormtrooper armor did cause concern before he revealed his face, Bridger, meanwhile, made his way to
Yeah, well, Mayfeld, he's… He's one of the best triggermen I've ever seen. Former Imperial sharpshooter.
―Ranzar Malk, Din Djarin, and Migs Mayfeld
Opinions on the combat skills of stormtroopers and their overall quality varied to some degree both during the Empire's reign and after it collapsed.
praised the stormtroopers, calling them the Empire's "keenest weapon."
Kenobi once noted the accuracy and precision of their blaster shots,
mocked stormtroopers as soldiers with poor aim.
claimed it was the standard issue E-11 blaster that hampered a stormtrooper's aim in his mockingly written final report before deserting,
regarded the stormtroopers themselves as the problem.
defended the stormtroopers for their allegiance to the Empire, but Rex took the opportunity to disparage them as an inferior class of soldier relative to the genetically engineered clone troopers they replaced.
Stormtroopers were remembered as a symbol of Imperial oppression, but opinions on and claims about their overall efficiency, particularly their aim, varied.
During the earliest days of stormtrooper recruitment and training, Clone Commando Sergeant Hunter of Clone Force 99 noted the apparent ineffectiveness of the recruits at the time, with clone commando Gregor claiming he purposely avoided teaching the new soldiers everything he knew.
Thinking about rebel propaganda that portrayed Imperial servants as poor shots,
of the Imperial Navy claimed that some stormtroopers should indeed spend more time practicing their targeting drills.
fighter and rising star in the criminal underworld during the Galactic Civil War,
was aware of claims about poor stormtrooper marksmanship and used them to mock a
holding a blaster to his head, putting his life on the line in the name of mocking his captor. The shoretooper responded by headbutting the bounty hunter, retorting that their aim with the strike was direct, before being killed by the defecting Imperial Lieutenant
In truth, the overall difference in stormtrooper aim and training varied between individual troopers across the galaxy.
While a majority of troopers across the galaxy possessed an overall superb aim, with Imperial specialist
stating that stormtroopers hit 77 percent of their targets,
and the soldiers who demonstrated lackluster aim created the joke that all troopers possessed poor marksmanship. The joke outlived the regime itself. Following the Imperial Era, Din Djarin, himself a skilled Mandalorian warrior trained since a young age, held stormtroopers in low regard relative to Mandalorians, being unimpressed by Migs Mayfeld's military background despite
's assurance that the Imperial veteran was skilled in marksmanship. Mayfeld, an ex-
retorted that he was not a stormtrooper.
, another skilled Mandalorian warrior who supported Bo-Katan Kryze, mocked the remnant stormtroopers of Gideon's remnant, joking that they lacked true marksmanship.
Oh, I think I understand, Synara. My Great Grand-Nikto told me about the Empire. There were stories of the stormtroopers not being very nice to our people.
The remnants of stormtrooper helmets left on pikes outside of Mos Eisley on Tatooine.
The stormtrooper became a symbol of the Empire across the galaxy,
resulting in their blank armor persisting as a representation of the regime after its fall.
On Tatooine, citizens celebrated the death of Palpatine
and later fall of the Empire. In the liberated
, the helmets of stormtroopers were left on pikes
After the space station's destruction in the Battle of Endor, the
. As the years passed, the armor of deceased stormtroopers remained abandoned within the ruins, growing dirty with age and water damage.
stormtrooper helmets were included amongst the war trophies the
Stormtrooper armor did get a new purpose on the former Imperial world of
wore former stormtrooper gear, albeit without helmets and with planetary robes.
One Ewok also wore a stormtrooper helmet while fighting in the
Nevertheless, the armor remained a symbol of the Empire and its ideals for the galaxy at large over the following decades.
stormtrooper helmets and armor were collected by individuals like the New Republic
, who had an interest in Imperial "artifacts." Several of Casterfo's
also admired and collected Imperial uniforms and armor. In addition, Imperial armor and other artifacts also sold at markets on
Stories of how the stormtroopers treated the
species were passed down as a warning of Imperial xenophobia.
Upon its emergence, the First Order deliberately invoked imagery unseen for a generation. The skull-like monochromatic visage of the stormtrooper—a clear evolution of an Imperial design—figured prominently.
During the New Republic Era, a new generation of stormtroopers was trained to serve the First Order.
The Imperial remnants that retreated to the Unknown Regions reorganized themselves as the
, achieving one of the Emperor's objectives—to destroy the Empire and then rebuild it—under the
Defying the Galactic Concordance, the First Order recruited and mobilized
. The new stormtroopers were influenced by the idea of Brendol.
The First Order's stormtroopers were equipped with sleeker armor and powerful weaponry.
Among the Order's agents was Terex, who had served as an Imperial stormtrooper.
, who had been at the disposal of the Emperor's Fist during a
, served as a Captain in the First Order. Captain Ruthford would find himself
once again, although this time he served under the grandson of Lord Vader, the
Cadets, you entered this facility as children. And in a few short weeks, you will leave as soldiers. By the time you complete your training, you will be prepared to serve your Emperor.
Stormtroopers were trained in Imperial Academies and subjected to numbing routine.
Unlike their predecessors, the majority of stormtroopers were non-clone recruits.
were shipped off to Imperial Academies, and subjected to rigorous training programs in order to produce highly trained shock troopers fiercely loyal to the Empire.
Cadets could be as young as thirteen standard years.
Although they were a somewhat rare sight,
were not prohibited from serving in the ranks of the stormtroopers.
All stormtroopers swore themselves to the Emperor and his will,
with the expectation to follow all orders
Learning to obey all orders without concern was a part of stormtrooper training.
Stormtroopers were trained to disregard fallen comrades in battle and to press on, no matter the cost, even when the odds were stacked against them.
In fact, those who were selected for stormtrooper training had to undergo extra reconditioning. This had the effect of dehumanizing the cadets, who came to refer to themselves by their
rather than their names. One such cadet was
regarded stormtroopers as brainwashed agents who were not as efficient as her division.
The stormtrooper training program promoted competition, ruthlessness, and unwavering loyalty to the Galactic Empire.
Stormtrooper recruits trained in numerous conditions, including
Among other things, cadets would train to fire
, and Imperial specialist Ralsius Paldora noted that stormtroopers hit 77 percent of their targets.
and the ruthlessness it took to become a stormtrooper. Cadets who attended Imperial Academies also underwent simulated obstacle courses in
, which were designed to test their strength, agility, reflexes and intelligence. Such courses and tests of skill became increasingly difficult over time, and accountability for losses were harsh.
While cadets attended the academy, they wore white uniforms and specialized helmets, similar to the standard stormtrooper or pilot gear. Aside from their basic training, many cadets were also assigned other non-combat duties on base. Such duties offered cadets the opportunity to gain experience over their peers, and were often presented as rewards for excellent performance during training exercises.
Stormtrooper cadets who exhibited a strong connection to the Force were reassigned to Project Harvester.
As cadets were being evaluated, the officers in charge were often instructed to take note of performance that might denote an affinity for
, and report it to one of their superiors. Cadets who met this special criteria were taken by
, a top secret Imperial program based on
, was one known subject of Project Harvester.
, who managed to escape due to the help of
Stormtrooper and other Imperial cadets also assisted in law enforcement operations. Following a spate of rebel activity on Lothal, Imperial cadets there were used to search homes and streets for illegal activities, detain the children of fugitives, and to raid smugglers. During these law enforcements operations, some cadets, like
came to flout their new-found powers; a trait that was encouraged by some officers, like
. Some prospective officer cadets, like Leonis and Oleg were also given the chance to lead adult stormtroopers in these raids. Cadets also had their backgrounds investigated for any sign of criminal connections and other subversive activities.
Gone were the flags, braids, baldrics, swords, and other regalia of tradition. They were replaced with a uniform look embodied by the stormtrooper.
Clone stormtroopers retained their Phase II clone trooper armor during the early years of the Imperial Era.
The clone troopers who survived the Clone Wars continued to wear the
after becoming the first generation of stormtroopers.
no longer featuring the various color patterns
that the clones had adopted after growing more individualistic under the Jedi Order's influence,
still wore their armor with the distinctive red markings of the
The first non-clone stormtroopers, designated as
, were given an updated version of trooper armor as the Galactic Empire shifted toward
willingly enlisted and unwillingly conscripted personnel alike
at the expense of clone soldiers. Like its clone armor templates, the
was a set of white armor components worn over a black body glove. In addition to various aesthetic differences between the two armors, the TK
the T-shaped visor of its Phase II predecessor and the earlier
During the Imperial Era, the white-armored stormtroopers became a symbol of the Galactic Empire.
Phase II was ultimately phased out after the creation of
, causing large stocks of clone armor to be recycled
as most clones entered retirement, having been replaced by natural-born soldiers. Stormtrooper armor was a common sight throughout the galaxy;
its stark white appearance served as a symbol of the New Order in contrast to the clone armor that represented honor and defense during the Clone Wars.
Stormtrooper armor was a distinctive set of white armor that was intended to instill a sense of order and security in loyal subjects and a sense of fear in the opponents of the Empire, while also providing the soldiers with an extended range of survival equipment and temperature controls. It was able to mitigate the effect of blaster fire and thus provide some protection;
in certain cases, stormtroopers continued to breathe after being shot by an
Stormtrooper armor was not without the limitations common to most types of armor, however. The plates made running slightly harder and offered reduced protection against large scale pulse detonations and blunt weapons.
Stormtroopers also had a utility belt and a grappling hook attached to it.
Regardless, the armor was effective in mitigating most primary and secondary dangers in most combat scenarios.
The helmet provided cranial protection, filtered
, and contained enhanced vision, communication systems and an effective
that could help locate threats, aid in navigation, and to help alert the wearer.
While many stormtroopers deployed to such environments would retain their
some stormtroopers involved in forest operations would wear a
, where the standard-issue white was painted over with a greenery inspired design that blended into nature.
worn over the right shoulder, with orange or red representing the rank of commander, black indicating an enlisted trooper, and white representing a sergeant. Sometimes on the pauldrons they had specific symbols distinguishing who they were serving, exemplified by
E-11 blaster rifles were standard-issue weapons for Imperial stormtroopers.
The E-11 blaster rifle was the standard issue weapon of stormtroopers,
although the first generations—primarily clone stormtroopers
and TK stormtroopers—used Clone War-era weapons such as the
Stormtroopers also occasionally utilized the
E-22 reciprocating double-barreled blaster rifle
Some stormtroopers were trained to handle
Outside of combat and security details, stormtrooper officers wore black dress tunics, caps, and boots, as well as
There is no environment too deadly for a trooper. Wherever the Empire needs us, we'll be there!
As the Empire was a galaxy-wide regime that constantly expanded, waged conflict on distant worlds, or ruled over those planets, different stormtrooper variants were created in order to maintain Imperial rule across any environment.
In his Grand Arena persona as an Imperial loyalist,
the former stormtrooper Sentinel once proclaimed that there should be no environment too deadly for an Imperial trooper, instead declaring that a trooper should go to wherever the Empire needed them to go.
However, in order to ensure the practical, day-to-day implementation of Imperial rule,
the Empire had specialized stormtrooper forces assembled to operate in different environments or roles in addition to the standard stormtroopers.
In the Grand Arena of Vespaara, even Sentinel demonstrated an understanding of that as he was more than willing to don the uniforms of other Imperial personnel, including that from various stormtrooper variants.
Once a trooper was specialized to their role, their physiological conditioning was so strong that one would rarely want to change what
Stormtroopers in mechanized battle armor armed with heavy handheld cannon were present at the
Clone troopers were the first generation of stormtroopers at the formation of the Galactic Empire.
: The clone troopers who had previously fought in the Clone Wars for the Republic served as the first generation of stormtroopers.
: Well-trained soldiers who were recruited as the first enlisted Imperial troopers.
: Early recruits who were trained by clone commandos to be the eventual replacements of clone stormtroopers.
: Stormtroopers that were equipped with scout trooper
. Cave troopers were also equipped with low-light vision gear to help them see in the darkness and had rappelling cables.
that were trained and equipped to operate in coastal and tropical regions. They were notably deployed on
that were trained for frozen environments and wore a special mask and a
that both resembled the equipment worn by the
: Stormtroopers with armor modified to operate on
: Stormtroopers trained to operate in forested environments.
: Stormtroopers that were equipped to operate in extremely high temperatures, and were trained to fight on
worlds like Sullust. They were equipped with reinforced leg armor, black pauldrons, and
: Stormtroopers trained and equipped to operate in
: Stormtroopers trained for zero-gravity environments with armor designed to breathe in space. Spacetroopers were used to patrol parts of the first Death Star.
: Stormtroopers trained for amphibious combat.
: Stormtroopers that were equipped with black armor and respiration tubes that were charged with defending
. They were commonly referred to as Lava Troopers.
, which the troopers called "slicks," and modified armor that allowed for better mobility while moving through Mimbanese swamps. Notably deployed on
: Stormtroopers that wore standard armor and were equipped with
. They sometimes were not equipped with helmets.
: Stormtroopers equipped with incendiary weapons.
: Specialized stormtroopers that wielded large
and were equipped with black pauldrons. There were also
Heavy snowtroopers were sometimes also equipped with small black pauldrons.
: Stormtroopers that were equipped with heavy combat armor and
: An elite specialized class of stormtrooper that wielded flamethrowers.
: Also known as Rocket troopers, were stormtroopers equipped with Jump Packs or jetpacks. One variant of jumptrooper was equipped with standard stormtrooper armor and a jump pack,
while another variant used specialized armor equipped with jetpacks and respirator tubes. The officers of this variant maintained an orange left shoulder pad to indicate rank.
There was also another variant of jumptrooper with more sophisticated armor, consisting of a control panel on the chest, respirator tubes, and black markings. There also existed
to police the city streets of occupied worlds.
that was harshly trained and were considered to be one of the toughest branches of
. They were equipped with snowtrooper-like armor, as well as fur and magnetic boots. They were assigned to protect various Imperial cargo, and were deployed to combat zones.
: A variant that wears a pauldron and carries thermal detonators.
: Stormtroopers that were equipped with standard armor and
They took down their opponents with extreme ferocity.
were specialized stormtroopers equipped with
and wore a red emblem on their shoulder pads.
: Stormtroopers that wore lighter armor and used
to patrol the perimeter of the Imperial garrisons they were assigned to.
They were equipped for long periods of time without support and high maneuverability. Scout troopers were also conditioned to operate with a partner whenever they could.
and wore a red pauldron along with a black bandolier across their chest.
: Stormtroopers that were pulled from standard stormtrooper ranks which wore a blue pauldron over their shoulder, had a visor attached to their helmet, and had a black bandolier across their chest plate.
: Elite black armored stormtroopers with specialized training and classified augmentations to make them "beyond human."
and were deployed as bodyguards to a number of upper-level figures, such as
They were also given special assignments such as guarding shipments of large
. Death trooper specialists were equipped with a black pauldron.
: Stormtroopers that were armed with heavy weaponry and wore stormtrooper armor with distinctive red markings,
similar to those of Republic clone troopers who served as in the
. It was not uncommon for Imperial shock troopers to be equipped with Clone Wars era shock trooper armor.
: Elite stormtroopers in black heavy armor that helped enforce Imperial law in the
Purge Troopers were handpicked from the ranks of the Stormtrooper Corps.
: Stormtroopers that assisted Lord Vader and the
. While the initial deployment of Purge Troopers was actually the last batch of clone troopers,
later generations of Purge Troopers were instead handpicked from the Empire's stormtrooper legions. Perspective Purge Troopers were picked for their loyalty and aptitude before being trained to combat
: Elite stormtroopers in black armor that were also equipped with
Special Commando Advanced Recon Troopers
: Elite stormtroopers that were part of the
of the Stormtrooper Corps, and were trained to deal with extreme combat situations.
A Night Trooper, a member of the legion that loyally served Thrawn during the New Republic Era
After the fall of the Empire, remaining stormtroopers who continued to champion the Imperial cause
became known as "Remnant Stormtroopers."
Pre-existing stormtrooper variants existed amongst the
but specific variants could emerge as new trooper types during the post-Imperial period.
Furthermore, Gideon's Imperial remnant would make use of
units who took the human element seen in stormtroopers
and were far more accurate shooters than standard stormtroopers.
of stormtroopers who remained active on the extragalactic planet Peridea in exile.
Incredibly loyal to Grand Admiral Thrawn,
they possessed extensively damaged armor that was held together with red strips and golden and grey pieces.
Thirty years after the Battle of Endor, variants of the former Galactic Empire's armed forces would exist under the auspices of a new organization known as the First Order. It utilized new stormtroopers and variants, such as the
My dad keeps telling me that the stormtroopers are the good guys. Are they really?
The stormtroopers are the good guys, it's just that they take orders from a very bad man.
Stormtroopers, as depicted in the early drafts of
, were to wield lightsabers and hand-held shields.
, when composing background information for licensees in
, stated that females did exist in the Stormtrooper Corps, although there were few stationed on the Death Star. He suggested that they were numerous in other units.
McQuarrie's original stormtrooper design would later be used as inspiration for the TK stormtrooper armor seen in
fan group makes use of stormtrooper armor to appear at public events and charitable causes.
, an actor playing a stormtrooper accidentally hit his head on a doorway. In the Star Wars
, a sound was added for the purpose of comedy. Over the years the accident turned into a tradition by making actors hit their heads on doors in the Star Wars films.
by Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi on Tatooine, earning him a cult following amongst
Within canon, the stormtrooper who bumped his head and the trooper who was mind tricked by Kenobi were confirmed to actually be the same individual,
whose real name was established as Wanten.
, special troops who were tasked in the last year of
with mounting fierce infantry assaults on Allied trenches in an attempt to break the stalemate on the Western Front. The Nazi party would later use "
" as the term for its paramilitary force in an effort to call back to the specialized troops of the German Empire.
When designing the stormtrooper, McQuarrie purposely drew on Nazi imagery. The stormtrooper design also has the imagery of moving skeletons,
with the stormtrooper helmet invoking the imagery of a human skull in specific.
's script for an Obi-Wan Kenobi feature film, the Inquisitor
. They were clone trooper veterans that still had their
in them and they never missed a shot. The troopers were commanded by Commander
and ended up dying over the course of the film's story.
Panoramic view of stormtroopers marching through shallow water for
Stormtrooper and shadow trooper concept art for "T0-B1"
Stylized stormtrooper armor for the television show
Forces of Destiny: Daring Adventures: Volume 1
Forces of Destiny: Daring Adventures: Volume 2
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
Solo: A Star Wars Story: Expanded Edition
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
Choose Your Destiny: A Han & Chewie Adventure
Special Report: Lothal Jobless Rates Hit All-time Low
Special Report: Rise in Citizen Reporting Results in Captured Criminals
Breaking News: Unauthorized Mining Operation Halted
Servants of the Empire: Edge of the Galaxy
The Secret Jedi: The Adventures of Kanan Jarrus: Rebel Leader
Servants of the Empire: Rebel in the Ranks
Servants of the Empire: Imperial Justice
Servants of the Empire: The Secret Academy
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
Forces of Destiny: The Leia Chronicles & The Rey Chronicles
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
The Mighty Chewbacca in the Forest of Fear!
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
Stormtroopers vs. Rebels – Soldiers of the Galactic Empire
A New Hope: The Princess, the Scoundrel, and the Farm Boy
The Adventures of Luke Skywalker, Jedi Knight
Star Wars: The Original Trilogy – A Graphic Novel
Princess Leia vs. Darth Vader - A Fearless Leader
Chewie vs. Holochess - Let the Wookiee Win
Smuggler's Run: A Han Solo & Chewbacca Adventure
Galactic Adventures Storybook Collection
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
The Princess and the Bog, A Twin Tale, Part 1
The Princess and the Bog, A Twin Tale, Part 2
The Weapon of a Jedi: A Luke Skywalker Adventure
The Empire Strikes Back: So You Want to Be a Jedi?
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Moving Target: A Princess Leia Adventure
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Return of the Jedi: Beware the Power of the Dark Side!
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Star Wars Adventures: Shadow of Vader's Castle
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
Victory's Price: An Alphabet Squadron Novel
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
Part Eight: The Jedi, the Witch, and the Warlord
Tales from a Galaxy Far, Far Away: Aliens: Volume I
Galactic Tales: The Crimson Corsair and the Sinister Secret of the Binary Star
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: A Junior Novel
Join the Resistance: Attack on Starkiller Base
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: A Junior Novel
Tales from Wild Space: Adventures in Wookiee-Sitting
Tales from Wild Space: The Blue Brothers
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
list is incomplete. You can help Wookieepedia by
Star Wars Epic Yarns: The Empire Strikes Back
Star Wars Epic Yarns: Return of the Jedi
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
Star Wars Rebels Imperial Propaganda Posters
and More at San Diego Comic-Con 2014 - UPDATED!
Meet Agent Kallus, Imperial Enforcer | Star Wars Rebels
Meet the Inquisitor, the Empire's Jedi Hunter | Star Wars Rebels
Ultimate Sticker Collection: Star Wars Rebels
Star Wars Rebels Extended Trailer (Official)
Kanan vs. The Inquisitor - SDCC 2014 Exclusive Clip | Star Wars Rebels
Helmets: Boba Fett — Notorious Bounty Hunter
Highlights of the Saga: The Capture of Han Solo
Cowboy Jedi: Freddie Prinze Jr. is Kanan Jarrus
The Rebel Bruiser: Steve Blum is Zeb Orrelios
NYCC 2013: Meet the Inquisitor, the New Face of Evil in
Highlights of the Saga: Sabotage Mission
Databank A-Z: Jar Jar Binks–B'omarr Order
Star Wars Costumes: The Original Trilogy
Star Wars Rebels: Beware the Inquisitor!
Databank A-Z: Hydroid Medusas–Imperial Academies
Princess Leia Organa - Rebel Leader (ROTJ)
Databank A-Z: E-11 Blaster–Cornelius Evazan
Highlights of the Saga: The Fall of the Jedi
Highlights of the Saga: Assault on Endor
Databank A-Z: Imperial Future Council–Inquisitorius
Highlights of the Saga: Battle of Kashyyyk
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Databank A-Z: Kyber Crystals–Laser Cannons
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
Databank A-Z: Davish Krail–Kuat Drive Yards
Weapons & Uniforms: Citizens of Alderaan
Highlights of the Saga: Escaping Cloud City
Databank A-Z: Sabe–The Separatist Council
Highlights of the Saga: Duel on Stygeon Prime
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
Art of Coloring: Rogue One: A Star Wars Story
Star Wars: Rogue One: The Ultimate Visual Guide
Highlights of the Saga: Operation Yellow Moon
Weapons & Uniforms: The Adventures of Nien Nunb
Highlights of the Saga: Finishing the Fight
Weapons & Uniforms: Veterans of the Clone Wars
Droid Directory: R2-series Astromech Droids, Part 1
Droid Directory: 3PO-series Protocol Droids, Part 1
Building the Galaxy: Filming R2-D2, Part 3
Building the Galaxy: The Weapon of a Jedi
Droid Directory: Imperial Mark IV Sentry Droid
Databank A-Z: Trident Assault Ship–Turbolasers
Highlights of the Saga: Leaving Skystrike
Highlights of the Saga: The Rebirth of Caleb Dume
Highlights of the Saga: Oddy Muva's Revenge
Highlights of the Saga: Battle on the Beach
Weapons & Uniforms: Creators of the Death Star
Weapons & Uniforms: Imperial Trooper Variants
Databank A-Z: Tractor Beams–Tri-Fighters
Highlights of the Saga: Infiltrating the Citadel
Star Wars Super Graphic: A Visual Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
Highlights of the Saga: Life After Jedha
Weapons & Uniforms: Inhabitants of Jedha
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle for Jedha
Databank A-Z: Vibroblades–Cikatro Vizago
Forces of Destiny: Tales of Hope & Courage
Star Wars: Geektionary: The Galaxy from A - Z
Behind the Cameras: Evolution of Stormtroopers
Limited Edition Darth Vader Commander Expansion
Imperial Stormtroopers Upgrade Expansion
Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles
Solo: A Star Wars Story The Official Guide
Solo: A Star Wars Story: Tales from Vandor
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Star Wars: Scum and Villainy: Case Files on the Galaxy's Most Notorious
Starfighter Aces: CR-978 — Elite But Expendable
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia, New Edition
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
The Mandalorian | Official Trailer | Disney+ | Streaming Nov. 12
Star Wars: How Not to Get Eaten by Ewoks and Other Galactic Survival Skills
75243 Slave I - 20th Anniversary Edition
The Mandalorian – Official Trailer 2 | Disney+ | Streaming Nov. 12
The Mandalorian | Special Look | Disney+
Star Wars | The Evolution of the Stormtrooper
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
"Shattered" Episode Guide - The Clone Wars
"Victory and Death" Episode Guide - The Clone Wars
Star Wars: The Mandalorian - The Art & Imagery Collector's Edition, Volume One
Season 1 Recap | The Mandalorian | Disney+
"The Mandalorian" Episode Guide | The Mandalorian
"The Sin" Episode Guide | The Mandalorian
"The Reckoning" Episode Guide | The Mandalorian
"Redemption" Episode Guide | The Mandalorian
The Battle of Hoth and the Second Death Star
Star Wars: The Mandalorian - The Art & Imagery Collector's Edition, Volume Two
"Aftermath" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
"Cut and Run" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
"Cornered" Episode Guide - The Bad Batch
"Common Ground" Episode Guide - The Bad Batch
"Rescue on Ryloth" Episode Guide - The Bad Batch
"War-Mantle" Episode Guide - The Bad Batch
"Return To Kamino" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy
Under the Helmet: The Legacy of Boba Fett
Return of a Legend | The Book of Boba Fett | Disney +
Obi-Wan Kenobi | Teaser Trailer | Disney+
Obi-Wan Kenobi | Official Trailer | Disney+
Day Merchandise Is Actually Quite Civilized
A Series of Firsts | Obi-Wan Kenobi | Disney+
Star Wars Jedi: Survivor – Official Teaser
Star Wars: Attack of the Clones 20th Anniversary Celebration | Star Wars Celebration Anaheim 2022
The Story of the Ronin Continues and More from Marvel's September 2022
Looking Back on the Series | Obi-Wan Kenobi | Disney+
You Can't Escape Poster Posse's Stunning
Inside the Lucasfilm Archive: Weapons of the Inquisitorius from the
Andor | Official Trailer | Disney+ (2:25)
Trailer Goes Big on Rebel Action, and Updated Premiere Details Revealed
Designing "The Rise of the Empire": Andre Kirk on the Bleak New Era in
Star Wars Outlaws: World Premiere Trailer
Star Wars Outlaws: Official Gameplay Walkthrough | Ubisoft Forward
Star Wars Outlaws: Meet Kay Vess' Actor | Ubisoft Forward
Ubisoft Forward: Official Livestream – June 2023 | #UbiForward
Star Wars Outlaws: Official Story Trailer
Star Wars Outlaws: Official Story Trailer
Star Wars Outlaws: Story Trailer Developer Breakdown
: Creative Director Julian Gerighty Breaks Down the New Story Trailer
Star Wars Outlaws: Official Teaser | Summer Game Fest 2024
Star Wars Outlaws Official Gameplay: All the Star Wars Lore, Details & Easter Eggs | Ubisoft Forward
Star Wars Outlaws: Official Game Overview Trailer | Ubisoft Forward
Star Wars Outlaws: Official Gameplay Showcase | Ubisoft Forward
Publishing Program and Other Reveals from the Lucasfilm Panel
Star Wars Outlaws: Behind The Scenes – Navigating the Underworld
Star Wars Outlaws: Official PC Gameplay Trailer
Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy
(First identified as Remnant Stormtrooper)
LEGO Star Wars: Build Your Own Adventure
LEGO Star Wars Summer Vacation | Official Trailer | Disney+
Strap in Starfighter, Star Wars is Taking Over in Fortnite: GALACTIC BATTLE!
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
states that the training of First Order stormtroopers began more than 20 years before the
Victory's Price: An Alphabet Squadron Novel
Smuggler's Run: A Han Solo & Chewbacca Adventure
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia: Updated and Expanded
Star Wars: Rogue One: Death Star Deluxe Book and 3D Wood Model
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
#2.02: Inside "The Lost Commanders" | Star Wars Rebels
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
Solo: A Star Wars Story The Official Guide
Stormtroopers vs. Rebels – Soldiers of the Galactic Empire
Ultimate Sticker Collection: Star Wars Vile Villains
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Servants of the Empire: Edge of the Galaxy
Star Wars Universe: The Emperor's Inner Circle
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Star Wars Rebels: Rebels Versus Empire Ultimate Sticker Book
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy
(version archived on August 7, 2020; now replaced)
. "Part Seven: Dreams and Madness" takes place after the
. Therefore, Seasons One through Three of
Star Wars: The Vintage Collection Carbonized Collection
Chapter 6: From the Desert Comes a Stranger
Part Eight: The Jedi, the Witch, and the Warlord
. Preceding episodes, also take place in that year, since they take place after
Part Eight: The Jedi, the Witch, and the Warlord
" takes place shortly after Part Seven, the events of
as a whole must all take place within the same year.
Part Eight: The Jedi, the Witch, and the Warlord
Phase III Teaser, New Jaxxon Art, and More
"So excited to have @claudiagray writing a #StarWars novel with us. SW: New Republic: Bloodline coming 2016. Set 6 years before TFA."
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: Rogue One: The Ultimate Visual Guide
Servants of the Empire: Rebel in the Ranks
Ultimate Sticker Collection: Star Wars Rebels: Deadly Battles
Servants of the Empire: Imperial Justice
"Aftermath" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
(Pack: Spacetrooper Sixth Scale Figure by Hot Toys)
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
Bounty Hunting Highlights: 5 of Our Favorite Moments from
The Making of Star Wars: The Definitive Story Behind the Original Film
"War-Mantle" Episode Guide - The Bad Batch
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
1914-1918-online. International Encyclopedia of the First World War
Entertainment Weekly's Ultimate Guide to Rogue One
Star Wars | The Evolution of the Stormtrooper
Obi-Wan Kenobi Writer Reveals Commander Cody's Scrapped Role (Exclusive)