This article has multiple issues and is in need of major additions and/or work.
This article would benefit from the addition of one or more new images. ({{
Parts of this article have been identified as no longer being up to date. ({{
}}) The article needs to be updated with
The High Republic: Temptation of the Force
Very Interesting, As an Astrogation Problem
Star Wars: The High Republic: Chronicles of the Jedi
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
Star Wars Bestiary, Vol. 1: Creatures of the Galaxy
Please help Wookieepedia by editing this article. Once you have fixed an issue, you may remove it from the list of issues. See this article's
Well, if there's a bright center to the universe, you're on the planet that it's farthest from.
, resulting in the world lacking the necessary surface
to sustain large populations. As a result, many residents of the planet instead drew water from the
. The planet also had little surface vegetation. It was the
It saw a population explosion following the search for valuable
properties, mining firms left the planet en masse, leaving behind valuable equipment, most notably large
, which were later used by the Jawa population. The planet then became a haven for
and criminal activity, and fell under the
at large, Tatooine gained the notice of the
on the sandy Outer Rim world. The Empire went on to establish a heavier presence on the planet, forging a tenuous relationship with
that left the Empire's hold on the world significantly weakened.
of Jabba and the withdrawal of Imperial forces after the
, an enormous power vacuum occurred on the world, with numerous crime syndicates like the
attempting to build legitimacy as mining companies. Eventually, former
Jabba's former territory. Coming into conflict with both the Hutt Clan and the
that threatened the future of Tatooine. With help from the
, Fett rallied the denizens of the settlements
to push back against the invaders, ushering in a new era of respect between the people of the planet.
A remote settlement within the vast canyons of the
The whole planet was covered in harsh deserts, and only a small part of its northern hemisphere could sustain intelligent life.
The landscape was covered with sand dunes,
, and canyons, which made traversing the planet very difficult. Due to the absence of surface
, those who lived on Tatooine had to draw moisture through the dry
Rain was incredibly rare on Tatooine, coming once a
were able to grow in a brief yet glorious period.
. The common krayt dragon, while more plentiful, was shadowed by the greater krayt dragon, which submerged itself under the shifting sands and used its powerful limbs to traverse through the dunes. In addition, the common
species also found a home on the world, along with
and the inhabitants always seemed to know when one was coming. Not much distinguished the towns as the poor standard of living was common. The cities were separated from each other by large expanses of deserts. Rural life, on the other hand, was mostly small
that sold water and food for a meager living.
Of course, if you believe the Legend of Lehon, Tatooine was once covered by lush jungle, the domain of the Kumumgah, although little evidence has been found for their existence.
species. It once had vast oceans of surface water, lush rainforest
, Tatooine had also been inhabited by a group called the
during this time, but there was little evidence to support the story.
Sometime in Tatooine's history, the whole planet became a desert by unknown means
Much later, it would be colonized by early settlers and explorers, who mistook the planet for a third sun owing to its highly reflective
Jawa traders sold scrap to offworlders who settled on Tatooine as moisture farmers
As a result of sporadic and unsuccessful colonization ventures, the planet became a haven for
and criminal activity, while scattered, isolated settlements of hard-working inhabitants attempted to earn a living in the wastes. A long-ago
on the desert plains in an effort to mine valuable minerals. However, after it was discovered that most valuable minerals could be found on the surface,
along with most minerals having unwanted
the sandcrawlers were abandoned and eventually picked up by the native Jawas for use as shelter and mobile bases, from which they collected scrap from thousands of years of crashed
Offworlders erected various cities in the desert, and colonists who decided to stay on the planet built moisture farms. The
bodies, and built a monastery on the planet which would eventually come under the ownership of
Most wealth eventually found its way into the city of
, with most of it procured from gambling and off-world trade, especially through the lucrative black market. The influx of commercial ventures fueled Mos Espa's growth, eventually securing its regional importance as a hub of economic and financial activity. With high tariffs imposed by the Hutts, some believed themselves able to escape paying them by doing business in the planet's de facto
, however often found themselves scammed and broke if not through gambling, through simple bad luck.
The Republic doesn't exist out here. We must survive on our own.
, Tatooine was known as a haven for smugglers and criminal activity,
, earning them their name of "Tusken Raiders."
, and she took refuge on Tatooine with her companions and protectors, including the
. The Skywalkers befriended Amidala's party, and the young slave ended up participating in a podrace to help his new friends obtain a new
. After discovering that Anakin Skywalker would make an exceptional recruit for the Jedi Order, Master Qui-Gon Jinn managed to obtain his freedom from the junk dealer
in the city of Mos Espa, and the Queen's party left Tatooine with the boy. After participating in numerous adventures, including the Invasion of Naboo, the former Tatooinian slave joined the
Ten years later, Skywalker, now a gifted but unruly Jedi student, sensed that his mother, who had stayed on Tatooine and gotten
, was in terrible pain. Skywalker returned to the desert world in the company of Amidala, who was now a senator of the Republic and the young Jedi's secret lover. It transpired that Shmi Skywalker had been captured by Tusken Raiders and was detained in one of their camps. When Skywalker finally discovered his mother's location, he arrived too late, and she died in his arms from the consequences of the Tuskens' mistreatment of her. Enraged, the young Jedi slaughtered the entire Tusken tribe. This had serious consequences as the first step towards Anakin Skywalker's fall from grace. Shortly after the incident, the
broke out, and the tortured Tatooinian Jedi became a major player of the pan-galactic conflict.
Republic forces on Tatooine after Jabba the Hutt agreed to sign a Republic treaty.
For the most part, Tatooine avoided the Clone Wars.
to Jabba's Palace occurred, with the Jedi hoping to rescue
headed to Tatooine to track down the bounty hunter
Three years after the start of the war, Skywalker fell to the dark side and joined the
, old adversaries of the Jedi who had long planned to take over the galaxy. The
, a new regime established to replace the Republic, started to hunt all Jedi. Skywalker's former master Obi-Wan Kenobi went into hiding on Tatooine, bringing the infant son of the fallen Jedi with him. On the desert expanses of Tatooine, Kenobi hoped that he could keep young
from his father's evil influence. Kenobi entrusted the boy
drought anyone could remember. The moisture farmers could barely gather enough water from their vaporators to keep themselves alive, let alone to trade in town for food and supplies. Especially with Jabba's thugs collecting "
." Rumor was that the bloated gangster took lavish
all throughout the day. Lest he perspire in the heat. But I didn't believe that rumor. I'd met Jabba. Jabba had never bathed in his life.
had landed on Tatooine looking for a Jedi on the run from the empire. The Jedi, "
," had escaped the Inquisitors originally, but was eventually found and killed. The inhabitants of the planet were surprised by the arrival of the Inquisitors, since Tatooine was not part of the
did not have jurisdiction on the planet, but this by no means prevents them from operating.
Later, Bail Organa shows up on Tatooine looking for Obi-Wan Kenobi's help in finding his daughter, Leia Organa. The Third Sister eventually returns to Tatooine looking to murder Luke Skywalker. The Third Sister redeems herself and decided not to hurt Luke, and brings him back to his uncles.
In the years following Emperor Palpatine's formation of his New Order, the
of Tatooine scorched the world's surface, impoverishing the many moisture farmers of a reliable source of income to procure food and other basic supplies. The situation was not helped by Jabba's thugs collecting "water taxes" from the many towns and isolated settlements across the planet, often resorting to threats and brute force to acquire enough water for the crime lord. With Obi-Wan Kenobi witnessing the suffering of the population, he disabled the weapons of the thugs, allowing the populace to chase them off. Later, a young Luke Skywalker attempted to confront the thugs, but was ultimately rescued by Obi-Wan after falling unconscious in a brief scuffle. With the legacy of the Jedi safe, Obi-Wan vowed never to return to town, while a week later the drought finally ended, and Jabba vowed revenge on the man who had stolen his water, to no avail.
but largely ignored the planet. All the same, the Empire left a small
Additionally, the Empire's rise prompted the Hutts to revise their often times shady business schemes, resulting in a transfer of regional wealth and influence from Mos Espa to
, prompting the slow economic decline of Mos Espa.
The final fight between Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi and former Lord Sith Maul took place on the sands of the Tatooine desert.
traveled to Tatooine to hunt down his old nemesis Obi-Wan Kenobi. Unable to draw the Jedi Master out of hiding, Maul used the fragment of the
to Tatooine. The two rebels were attacked by Tusken Raiders, who damaged their
. After being lost in the desert, Ezra and Chopper were rescued by Kenobi, who revealed Maul's deception. Kenobi then instructed the two rebels to return to
while he defeated and fatally wounded Maul in combat. As Maul died in Kenobi's arms, Kenobi confirmed Maul's suspicions that he was hiding the
Lord Vader! It is my distinct pleasure and great honor to welcome you to Tatooine!
Imperial sandtrooper on the streets of Mos Eisley.
landed on Tatooine's surface in an escape pod after their
. With the droids carrying the technical readouts to the
, a task force was sent to the planet in order to capture the two droids,
marking the moment the Empire began to truly pay attention to Tatooine.
Upon coming in contact with a Jawa sandcrawler, the two were abducted and later sold to Owen Lars of the
, with R2 being chosen after another astromech droid,
broke down. Later that day, Luke Skywalker, unknowingly Anakin Skywalker's son came across a recorded message of Princess
pleading for the help of Obi-Wan Kenobi against the Galactic Empire. Intrigued, if only because R2 later ran away, forcing Luke and C-3PO to retrieve him, the two were attacked by native Tusken Raiders.
Being saved by Kenobi, Skywalker learned that he was a
while Kenobi offered to train him. Refusing and heading home, Skywalker came across the remains of the sandcrawler that originally sold the two droids to his family. Realizing that it was the work of Imperial forces and that they may have traced the droids back to his house, he rushed back only to find the moisture farm burned to the ground, with the charred remains of his aunt and uncle laying outside in the sun. Agreeing to go with Kenobi to Mos Eisley, they discovered the city under Imperial control and they hired the services of
. Barely escaping an intense firefight with multiple
, the two escaped Tatooine and several Star Destroyers into hyperspace.
Sometime during the Galactic Civil War, Tusken Raiders under the leadership of the
attacked local settlements. He and his followers were ultimately defeated by a
the gang led the Rebels into a series of successful
Nevertheless, the Empire would come to reestablish its presence on the desert world,
Shortly after the Battle of Yavin, a shuttle with emissaries in the employ of Jabba, who were meant to negotiate a deal to provide support to the Empire at
, and a strike team consisting of Han Solo, Luke Skywalker, and Leia Organa
to the factory, infiltrating and destroying it. The negotiations having failed, Darth Vader returned to Tatooine to negotiate the deal with Jabba in person. After the negotiations were complete, Vader remained on Tatooine shortly to wipe out a
to ascertain the identity of the pilot who destroyed the First Death Star.
Fett tracked down and dueled Skywalker, who had returned to the late Ben Kenobi's dwelling for education, learning his name and reporting to Vader.
The sands and twin suns of Tatooine between 3 and 4 ABY
After learning he had a son, Vader traveled to Tatooine with his
, to investigate the Lars Homestead and Kenobi's home.
When the Rebel Alliance split its forces up to escape the Empire
after their time with the Rebellion on Hoth.
Vader also returned to Tatooine in the aftermath of the
. She gave out contracts that could be used to gain favor with the Dawn. Similar contract brokers existed on Tatooine giving out contracts for the Ashiga Clan and the Pyke Syndicate. Despite this, none of these syndicates could set up bases on Tatooine like they had on
due to the dominance of the Hutt Cartel on the planet. The Empire also increased their presence on the planet by this time, having established
in the Western Dune Sea and continued their presence in Mos Eisley.
traveled throughout the galaxy to collect those who cared about Aphra to save her. They traveled to Tatooine to recruit Klam, who was sitting atop Gurtyl in a town among several other residents,
though Klam ultimately did not accompany them when they traveled to a
Kitster and Wald freed their friends Melee, Seek, and Amee.
Kitster Banai and Wald returned to Tatooine to free their friends, Melee, Amee, and Seek on a
to free all the enslaved workers there. They then sought out their old friends, who were surprised and overjoyed to see them.
The Heroes of Yavin put an end to Jabba's rule.
Attempting to rescue Solo, the droids R2-D2 and C-3PO infiltrated Jabba's Palace disguised as servants after Luke Skywalker "gifted" them to the crime lord. Arriving at the palace not long after, Skywalker attempted to bargain with Jabba for his friend's life, only to be refused and dropped into a
pit. After a struggle, Luke managed to kill the rancor, angering Jabba and sentencing him and Solo (who was freed by Organa in the guise of a bounty hunter who had captured his friend, Chewbacca) to death in the
, while Organa became one of Jabba's many entertainers. Later, as they were about to be executed, R2-D2 fired
, who had been disguised as a guard, to make their escape. After an intense shootout, Organa strangled Jabba to death with the chain used to keep her hostage, and Boba Fett was knocked into the
. Skywalker, Solo, Organa, Chewbacca, Calrissian, and the two droids escaped the planet once more.
Although Fett was swallowed by the sarlacc, he survived and managed to escape the creature's stomach, though his armor was stolen by Jawas shortly thereafter due to his weakness from his escape.
Afraid the Republic is back and gonna put their boot down on all the lowlifes and scum-lickers, the syndicates are trying to find new ways to appear legit. And with the Hutts fighting one another for control, bunch of these quote-unquote
are swooping in with brutes like your boss at the helm.
Cobb Vanth became the enigmatic lawman of Mos Pelgo.
Following the creasing of Imperial rule, numerous crime syndicates attempted to build legitimacy as mining companies, with one such company, the
would eventually stamp out their operations on the planet. These companies tried to take advantage of the power vacuum caused by the death of Jabba.
However Fett lived on, having only been knocked unconscious for an unknown length of time, and dug himself out of the great pit. Exahusted and suffering wounds from the enounter, collapsed, where a Jawa sandcrawler scavenged the wreckage from Jabba's sail barge, including his set of
from the Jawa sandcrawler and went on to defeat the Red Key gangster
and dedicated his life to protecting the town from the Red Key Raiders. He also enlisted Jabba's former Beastmaster
in helping to tame two unruly rontos and to raise the Huttlet
. With Malakili's help, Cobb struck a deal with the local Tusken Raiders to protect the town in exchange for water and receiving a
from the stomach of a krayt dragon. This alliance proved important in repelling an
defeated a pursuing bounty hunter in a dogfight. His ship, the
was damaged and he landed at a repair facility run by
in Mos Eisley. While seeking work to pay for the repairs in a local cantina, he met
, a young bounty hunter looking to join the guild by capturing
, a well-trained mercenary. Despite having misgivings, Djarin agreed to help him in exchange for the bounty's reward, while all other credit. Around this same time,
traveling under the care of Djarin, exited the
and attracted the attention of Peli Motto, who cared for him while repairing the ship for Djarin. Djarin and Calican then traveled into the Dune Sea on speeder bikes, looking for Shand. They came upon Tusken Raiders; Djarin bartered with them for safe passage. They eventually came across a Dewback with a dead bounty hunter attached to it, which is revealed to be bait laid out by Shand to attract anyone looking for her. The two managed to fend off Shand's attacks, but lost one of their speeder bikes in the process. Nevertheless, the pair was able to take Shand into custody.
Djarin agreed to go retrieve the Dewback they encountered earlier to replace the destroyed speeder. Calican watched over Shand during this period. While alone, Shand told him that Mando was a traitor to the guild and that the bounty on him was worth a great deal more than her bounty. Calican was unconcerned with the bounty, but Shand pointed out that taking out a Mandalorian would make him a legend. She then offered to help Calican capture the Mandalorian if he set her free. However, Calican instead shot her, assuming that she would betray him, and then headed to the repair facility on the speeder bike, where he took Motto and Grogu hostage. Shortly thereafter, Djarin arrived and used a flash grenade to disorient Calican, using the opportunity to kill him. Mando then gave Calican's money to Motto to pay for the repairs on his ship. He and Grogu then left Tatooine.
, would later return to Tatooine in search of other Mandalorians in his quest to find a Jedi. Upon his return, in place of another Mandalorian, he was instead met by the lawman Cobb Vanth donning Boba Fett's armor. After a tumultuous start, the two became allies and worked together to unite the local citizens of Mos Pelgo and nearby Tusken Raiders to liberate all from the terror of a
. During this time, the bounty hunter Boba Fett began to track Din Djarin, watching him from a distance in the Tatooine desert.
Joined by Shand, whose life he had saved after Calican shot her, Fett eventually regained his armor after following Djarin to the planet
Jabba ruled with fear. I intend to rule with respect.
Boba Fett takes control of Jabba's Palace, becoming the new crime lord.
Eventually, Fett returned to Tatooine accompanied by Shand and took over Jabba's Palace and the criminal empire that once belonged to the Hutt
Some time later, Fett was attacked and was injured by the
, which was later revealed to have been sent by Jabba's cousins,
, who wanted to acquire the territory that formerly belonged to their deceased cousin.
Lord Fett at his palace. After Krrsantan's failure and capture, they arrived to apologize to Fett and offer him a
as tribute. They also announced their departure from Tatooine, as they've been informed that Jabba's former holdings have actually been promised to the
, and they had no interest in starting a war over a "worthless rock".
With a war with the Pyke Syndicate on the horizon, Fett began assembling an army, recruiting even Krrsantan despite his attempt on his life
Although Krrsantan and Djarin joined the fight against the Pykes, Fett still needed a infantry as the Pykes outnumbered them. Djarin offered to help with this. He went to Freetown, the town formerly known as Mos Pelgo, to enlist the help of his acquaintance, Sheriff Cobb Vanth. Djarin asked that he and the townspeople join Fett, saying that the Pykes' influence would inevitably reach the town as well. Though Djarin didn't know it, Vanth had already faced the Pykes when he saw them trading spices in the city's territory.
However, Vanth initially saw no reason for people to join the fight, as he thought the Pykes wouldn't mind Freetown, at least not with him around. Djarin left, but Vanth said he'd think about it. Shortly after Djarin's departure, Vanth decided to recruit those in the city who were willing to fight. At this time, the famous bounty hunter
, who was in the employ of the Pykes, arrived in the city. Bane had gone to deal with Vanth for his meddling in syndicate affairs. After a brief conversation and Vanth refusing to let the Pykes continue with the spice trade in the city, Bane wounded Vanth and killed his assistant before clearing things up for the citizens and departing.
, which led to Bane's death at the hands of Fett, many damages in the city and many losses to the Pykes, the syndicate withdrew from incorporating Tatooine into their territory. With Fett having fought within the city to defend it and winning the day, he became respected by the people he ruled over.
Rey returned to the home planet of her former masters to honor their legacy
. At this time, Hutts continued to operate on Tatooine, and the planet was known for being controlled by criminal enterprises.
began to collapse, as people from across the galaxy rose against the tyrannical regime, ending the
. Sometime after the battle, Rey traveled to the Lars moisture farm on Tatooine with
, going by the name "Rey Skywalker" with the blessing of the
of Luke and Leia. Rey and BB-8 then looked off into the distance as the twin suns of Tatooine rose.
The Raiders, native to the planet, were a nomadic tribal society with strict social and moral codes, along with defined territorial boundaries. Frequent colonial trespasses on their sovereign territory, along with the collusion between old values and galactic modernization, often forced the Tuskens to attack colonists whom they both vehemently feared and despised.
Tusken Raiders often attacked isolated settlements on the fringes of their territory such as
, and often took potshots at podracers during the
, celebrated once every year as part of the
Jawas collected scrap metal and repurposed droids which they sold to settlers.
Jawas were also a native species to Tatooine, and as such deeply entrenched into a nomadic lifestyle. Unlike the Tuskens, whom they attempted to avoid, Jawas frequently sold collected scrap metal and droids to the scattered settlers on the planet, earning a reputation as merchants and vagabonds. Myth and folklore also played an important part in Jawa society, with the Jawa's belief that the great Dune Sea was once a true ocean. Later research into ancient fossil-bearing rock and eroded canyons seemed to support this notion. Nonetheless, most of Tatooine's inhabitants refused to believe the story, finding it far-fetched and ludicrous.
former mining vehicles claimed by the Jawas
Tatooine is sparsely populated. If the trace was correct, I will find them quickly, Master.
Mos Eisley was one of the rare cities on Tatooine.
Lawful inhabitants on the planet often utilized
owing to their energy efficiency, resulting in their status as one of the most crucial pieces of equipment for survival. While single vaporators often cost 500
each, some individuals bought and owned multiple units, creating moisture farms. Often utilizing the extra water for small hydroponic gardens, few gardens yielded enough to make substantial profits. In addition, vaporators required frequent maintenance and security systems to deter attacks from Tusken Raiders, who believed all water was sacred and belonged to them.
, including Mos Espa and Mos Eisley. Beside those cities, which attracted many criminals, most settlers of Tatooine operated
Due to the planet's dangerously high daytime temperature and whipping sandstorms, most residents of Tatooine kept their skin covered with practical materials that wick away sweat and limit exposure to the harmful
taking near-full control over the trafficking and
trades, new citizens had a large time breaking into the criminal market even though it was more lucrative than the water market.
Slavery, while banned through Republic laws, was readily and blatantly practiced under the twin suns. An entire section of Mos Espa was purposed as a
. On Tatooine, at least, the institution of slavery was seen as a socioeconomic symbol of wealth and prestige, resulting in highly protective owners who reluctantly parted with their possessions. Used as capital in business transactions, nearly all slavery operations were overseen by the Hutt gangsters, who regarded slavery as a useful institution.
There's a big race tomorrow, on Boonta Eve.
An annual holiday celebrated on the planet was Boonta Eve. The holiday was celebrated in honor of
" ranked number two in the top five of Tatooine's greatest hits, beaten by
." The Modal Nodes followed up their success with the number-three hit "
The Sequential Passage of Chronological Intervals
(Mad About Me Remix)." The Max Rebo Band was left with only two of Tatooine's top five songs, with their number-four hit "
The planet wasn't actually named in Episode IV, though director
only to rename it in the fourth draft after the movie's desert location
Filming of Tatooine scenes took place around
, the actor who played Luke Skywalker's friend
in an ultimately cut scene and stormtrooper
in Mos Eisley, recalled the filming in Tunisia to be a "freewheeling" experience he could enjoy. According to Forrest, the moment had the spirit of an independent film production, with Lucas even personally applying more dirt to their costumes. In what he declared a moment of great filmmaking that helped create the feel of the
universe, Forrest rationalized that Lucas did so because Tatooine was a world where water needed to be harvested, so people on the planet would not waste it extensively cleaning their clothes or equipment. The heat in Tunisia was an issue for everyone on set. Forrest was sunburnt during the filming in Tunisia, which made acting in the stormtrooper armor difficult. However, he was nevertheless very happy to share a scene with
" that blue wildflowers grew as fields on Tatooine within its deserts. As Miller reasoned, if the blue hue of blue milk was natural, banthas eating blue foliage would explain where the blue milk's coloration came from.
-like gas giant) in the real-world universe was discovered with two suns. The official name is
, but many call it the real Tatooine (even
employee was present at NASA's news conference. Kepler-16b is 200 light years from the
(the swan). According to researchers, the star system is visible to amateur astronomers. Coincidentally, the planet was discovered a day before the release of the
, two more gas giants that orbit two suns each have been found. One is
, which orbits each sun-like star once every 289 days at the same distance from them as the Earth is from our sun. Kepler-34b is located 4900 light years away from Earth. The other is
, which orbits each of its suns once every 131 days at a distance of 60% of the distance between Earth and the sun. Kepler-35b's suns are smaller than our sun and are located 5400 light-years from Earth.
constellation contains a planet that orbits three stars – one more than Tatooine a configurationwhich scientists were previously unsure could survive.
Tatooine could also be taken as a derivative of the planet
serials, presented as a desert planet too in some media. This assumption is strongly supported by the presence of the starport
, the same planet which was later named Utapau in the
, where Gordon is briefly mentioned. Utapau, as noted above, was ultimately renamed Tatooine.
The High Republic: Temptation of the Force
(Indirectly mentioned only; in flashback)
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Choose Your Destiny: A Han & Chewie Adventure
Maul: A Star Wars Rebels Cinestory Comic
Star Wars Adventures: Return to Vader's Castle
A New Hope: The Princess, the Scoundrel, and the Farm Boy
The Adventures of Luke Skywalker, Jedi Knight
Star Wars: The Original Trilogy – A Graphic Novel
Smuggler's Run: A Han Solo & Chewbacca Adventure
The Weapon of a Jedi: A Luke Skywalker Adventure
The Empire Strikes Back: So You Want to Be a Jedi?
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
War of the Bounty Hunters – Jabba the Hutt
War of the Bounty Hunters – 4-LOM & Zuckuss
Moving Target: A Princess Leia Adventure
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Return of the Jedi: Beware the Power of the Dark Side!
Star Wars Galactic Stories: 7 Stories from a Galaxy Far, Far Away....
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Luke vs. the Rancor - Wrath of the Rancor
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Chapter 6: From the Desert Comes a Stranger
Very Interesting, As an Astrogation Problem
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: A Junior Novel
Flight of the Falcon, Part 5: Grand Theft Falcon
Tales from Wild Space: Podracer's Rescue
Tales from Wild Space: The Blue Brothers
Tales from Wild Space: Majordomo, Major Problems
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
William Shakespeare's The Phantom of Menace: Star Wars Part the First
Star Wars Epic Yarns: Return of the Jedi
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
From Trenches to Wrenches: The Roger Story
"Rookies" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Sphere of Influence" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Evil Plans" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Hunt for Ziro" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Revenge" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
"Eminence" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
Helmets: Darth Vader, Master of the Dark Side
Highlights of the Saga: The Capture of Han Solo
Galactic Backpacking, Part 4: Visiting Real-World Tatooine
Databank A-Z: Jar Jar Binks–B'omarr Order
Highlights of the Saga: Escape to Tatooine
Databank A-Z: Hydroid Medusas–Imperial Academies
Highlights of the Saga: Attack on Jabba's Palace
Databank A-Z: E-11 Blaster–Cornelius Evazan
Highlights of the Saga: The Boonta Eve Classic
Weapons & Uniforms: Sebulba and Rival Pilots
Highlights of the Saga: The Death of Jabba the Hutt
Weapons & Uniforms: Jabba's Skiff Guards
Highlights of the Saga: The Capture of the
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle of Geonosis
Highlights of the Saga: Assault on Endor
Weapons & Uniforms: Princess Leia Organa
Weapons & Uniforms: Terror of the IG-100s
Highlights of the Saga: Anakin's Tragedy
Weapons & Uniforms: Inhabitants of Tatooine
Databank A-Z: InterGalactic Banking Clan–Jakku
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Databank A-Z: Queen Jamillia–Jedi Temples
Databank A-Z: Kyber Crystals–Laser Cannons
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
Databank A-Z: Davish Krail–Kuat Drive Yards
Weapons & Uniforms: Citizens of Alderaan
Databank A-Z: Petranaki Arena–Proton Torpedoes
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle of Teth
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia: Updated and Expanded
Secrets of Spaceflight: Smuggling Bosses
Weapons & Uniforms: Mos Eisley Spaceport Cantina
Much to Learn You Still Have: 9 Things You Might Not Know About Rodians
Databank A-Z: Sabe–The Separatist Council
Highlights of the Saga: Someone to Watch Over Me
Weapons & Uniforms: Growing up on Tatooine
Star Wars: X-Wing Deluxe Book and Model Set
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
Much to Learn You Still Have: 7 Things You Might Not Know About Sullustans
Entertainment Weekly's Ultimate Guide to Rogue One
Star Wars: Rogue One: The Ultimate Visual Guide
Much to Learn You Still Have: 7 Things You Might Not Know About Jawas
Building the Galaxy: Designing R2-D2, Part 1
Droid Directory: R2-series Astromech Droids, Part 1
Building the Galaxy: Designing R2-D2, Part 2
Droid Directory: 3PO-series Protocol Droids, Part 1
Droid Directory: R2-series Astromech Droids, Part 2
Building the Galaxy: Filming R2-D2, Part 1
Droid Directory: 3PO-series Protocol Droids, Part 2
Databank A-Z: Tusken Raiders–Captain Typho
Building the Galaxy: Filming R2-D2, Part 2
Droid Directory: 2-1B-series Medical Droids, Part 1
Building the Galaxy: Filming R2-D2, Part 3
Droid Directory: LOM-series Protocol Droids
Droid Directory: Imperial Mark IV Sentry Droid
Databank A-Z: Trident Assault Ship–Turbolasers
Weapons & Uniforms: Chopper Base — Atollon
Highlights of the Saga: Flight from Naboo
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle of Scarif
Highlights of the Saga: Luke's Journey in the Force
Star Wars Super Graphic: A Visual Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, Updated and Expanded
Star Wars: Geektionary: The Galaxy from A - Z
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: The Visual Dictionary
Behind the Cameras: How the Death Star Was Created
Behind the Cameras: Evolution of Stormtroopers
Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles
Solo: A Star Wars Story The Official Guide
Starfighter Aces: Luke Skywalker — Savior of the Rebel Alliance
Starfighter Aces: Biggs Darklighter — Renegade from the Academy
Solo: A Star Wars Story: Tales from Vandor
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Star Wars: Scum and Villainy: Case Files on the Galaxy's Most Notorious
YT-1300 Millennium Falcon Owners' Workshop Manual
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia, New Edition
The Mandalorian | Official Trailer | Disney+ | Streaming Nov. 12
Star Wars: How Not to Get Eaten by Ewoks and Other Galactic Survival Skills
75258 Anakin's Podracer - 20th Anniversary Edition
75243 Slave I - 20th Anniversary Edition
The Mandalorian – Official Trailer 2 | Disney+ | Streaming Nov. 12
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
75265 T-16 Skyhopper vs Bantha Microfighters
Disney Gallery: The Mandalorian | Official Trailer | Disney+
A Sneak Peek at Disney Gallery: The Mandalorian, Join The Star Wars Show Book Club, and More!
Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge: Traveler's Guide to Batuu
Emmy news, Casting for Tales From the Galaxy's Edge, A Comic-Con@Home Recap, and More!
The Mandalorian | Season 2 Official Trailer | Disney+
The Mandalorian Trailer, Tales from the Galaxy's Edge Updates, and More!
Monopoly: Star Wars The Mandalorian Edition
Season 1 Recap | The Mandalorian | Disney+
"The Gunslinger" Episode Guide | The Mandalorian
"The Marshal" Episode Guide | The Mandalorian
Star Wars LEGO Holiday Cheer, A Mando Mondays Mystery, and More!
Republic, Rebel, and Resistance Starfighters
Season 2 Recap Sizzle | The Mandalorian | Disney+
The Battle of Hoth and the Second Death Star
The Final Order and the Battle of Exegol
Star Wars: The Mandalorian - The Art & Imagery Collector's Edition, Volume Two
"Cut and Run" Episode Guide | The Bad Batch
"Cornered" Episode Guide - The Bad Batch
STAR WARS: VISIONS | SPECIAL LOOK | DISNEY+
The Book of Boba Fett | Official Trailer | Disney+
Under the Helmet: The Legacy of Boba Fett
Message | The Book of Boba Fett | Disney+
The Return | The Book of Boba Fett | Disney+
Authority | The Book of Boba Fett | Disney+
Return of a Legend | The Book of Boba Fett | Disney +
Throne | The Book of Boba Fett | Disney+
Arrival | The Book of Boba Fett | Disney+
Star Wars Droids Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
Being Boba Fett | The Book of Boba Fett | Disney+
Cargo Hold: "Chapter 1: Stranger in a Strange Land"
Cargo Hold: "Chapter 2: The Tribes of Tatooine"
Chapter 3 official Clip | The Book of Boba Fett | Disney+
: 5 Highlights from "Chapter 1: Stranger in a Strange Land"
: 5 Highlights from "Chapter 2: The Tribes of Tatooine"
Cargo Hold: "Chapter 3: The Streets of Mos Espa"
: 5 Highlights from "Chapter 3: The Streets of Mos Espa"
Cargo Hold: "Chapter 4: The Gathering Storm"
: 5 Highlights from "Chapter 4: The Gathering Storm"
Big Empire | The Book of Boba Fett | Disney+
Stranger | The Book of Boba Fett | Disney+
Cargo Hold: "Chapter 6: From the Desert Comes a Stranger"
: 5 Highlights from "Chapter 6: From the Desert Comes a Stranger"
Cargo Hold: "Chapter 7: In the Name of Honor"
: 5 Highlights from "Chapter 7: In the Name of Honor"
Obi-Wan Kenobi | Teaser Trailer | Disney+
Obi-Wan Kenobi | Official Trailer | Disney+
Disney Gallery: The Book of Boba Fett | Disney+
Day Merchandise Is Actually Quite Civilized
at 20 | Hayden Christensen Looks Back at His First Steps as Anakin Skywalker
at 20 | Costume Designer Trisha Biggar Reflects on Her Most Challenging Film
A Series of Firsts | Obi-Wan Kenobi | Disney+
With the New Dark Horse Comic – Exclusive
Obi-101: Everything You Need to Know About Obi-Wan Kenobi
10 of Obi-Wan Kenobi's Greatest Moments (So Far)
SWCA 2022: 4 Things We Learned From the Attack of the Chords Panel
SWCA 2022: 6 Things We Learned From the Lucasfilm Publishing Fiction Panel
Star Wars: Attack of the Clones 20th Anniversary Celebration | Star Wars Celebration Anaheim 2022
SWCA 2022: Boba Fett, Fennec Shand, and More
SWCA 2022: 5 Product Reveals We Love from the
SWCA 2022: 5 Creative Lessons Behind the Making of
The Story of the Ronin Continues and More from Marvel's September 2022
Looking Back on the Series | Obi-Wan Kenobi | Disney+
You Can't Escape Poster Posse's Stunning
Obi-Wan Kenobi Props, LEGO Star Wars Summer Vacation, and More!
Inside the Lucasfilm Archive: An Elegant Weapon and Other Jedi Artifacts from the
Inside the Lucasfilm Archive: Weapons of the Inquisitorius from the
Obi-Wan Kenobi Dark Side Props, Emmy Nominations, and More!
We Checked Out the Drinks, Easter Eggs, and Galactic View at
Inside the Lucasfilm Archive: A Brewing Rebellion in the
Costumes Revealed at the Lucasfilm Pavilion
Caring for Creatures From Across the Galaxy at
The Mandalorian | Season 3 Teaser Trailer | Disney+
Star Wars: The Secrets of the Bounty Hunters
Star Wars: The High Republic: Chronicles of the Jedi
Celebrating 40 Years of Return of the Jedi
Star Wars Outlaws: World Premiere Trailer
Ahsoka Release Date Announced, Hayden Christensen and Diego Luna Chat, and More!
Star Wars Outlaws: Official Gameplay Walkthrough | Ubisoft Forward
Star Wars Outlaws: Meet Kay Vess' Actor | Ubisoft Forward
Ubisoft Forward: Official Livestream – June 2023 | #UbiForward
Crossover Event in Marvel's September 2023
Star Wars Outlaws: Behind The Scenes - Crafting a Galaxy of Opportunity
Master & Apprentice: A Special Look at Ahsoka
Star Wars: Dawn of Rebellion: The Visual Guide
Celebrates 25 Years with Return to Theaters
Star Wars Outlaws: Official Story Trailer
Star Wars Outlaws: Official Story Trailer
Star Wars Outlaws: Story Trailer Developer Breakdown
Star Wars Outlaws: Official Teaser | Summer Game Fest 2024
Star Wars Outlaws: Official Gameplay Showcase | Ubisoft Forward
Star Wars Outlaws Official Gameplay: All the Star Wars Lore, Details & Easter Eggs | Ubisoft Forward
Star Wars Outlaws: Official Game Overview Trailer | Ubisoft Forward
Star Wars Outlaws: Official Gameplay Showcase | Ubisoft Forward
' Julian Gerighty Talks Kay Vess' Journey: "This Is a Survival Story"
' Julian Gerighty Talks Kay Vess' Journey: "This Is a Survival Story"
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
Star Wars Outlaws: Behind The Scenes – Navigating the Underworld
The Sights and Scoundrels of Star Wars Outlaws
Star Wars Outlaws: Official PC Gameplay Trailer
Star Wars Outlaws:  Bringing Nix & ND-5 To Life
Star Wars Outlaws: Official Launch Trailer
Star Wars Outlaws: Building An Open World
Star Wars Bestiary, Vol. 1: Creatures of the Galaxy
Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy
Star Wars Outlaws: Title Update 1.4 Overview
Star Wars: Complete Locations, New Edition
Star Wars Outlaws: A Pirate's Fortune | Story Pack #2 Reveal Trailer
Wookiee Basketball, Kid Han Solo, and a Kenobi Dummy: 20 Fun Facts about
Star Wars Outlaws Demo – Frequently Asked questions
Star Wars: The Acolyte: The Visual Guide
NYCC 2025: All the News and Reveals from the Lucasfilm Publishing Panel
Star Wars: Galactic Atlas: Updated Edition
LEGO Star Wars: Choose Your Side: Doodle Activity Book
LEGO Star Wars: Build Your Own Adventure
LEGO Star Wars Terrifying Tales | Official Trailer | Disney+
"I Am Your Mother" Episode Guide | Star Wars Visions Volume 2
Star Wars: The High Republic: Chronicles of the Jedi
Star Wars: The Acolyte: The Visual Guide
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge Kyber Crystals - Series 2 - Rey Skywalker - Holocron & Wayfinder
Star Wars: Geektionary: The Galaxy from A - Z
Chapter 6: From the Desert Comes a Stranger
Weapons & Uniforms: Inhabitants of Tatooine
: 5 Highlights from "Chapter 2: The Tribes of Tatooine"
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Star Wars: The Galactic Explorer's Guide
Ultimate Factivity Collection: Star Wars
Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy
Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge: Traveler's Guide to Batuu
The Making of Star Wars: The Definitive Story Behind the Original Film
This Planet With Three Suns Shouldn't Even Exist