Star Wars: TIE Fighter Deluxe Book and Model Set
Parts of this article are no longer up to date.
Please update the article to include missing information, and remove this template when finished.
(Replaced by P-s4 ion engines approx. 14 BBY)
(Replaced by L-s7.2 laser cannons 3 ABY)
You always hear them first. Twin ion engines make TIE fighters howl as they fly by on patrols.
superiority. Instantly recognizable from the roar of its
as well as its unique design, the TIE/ln exuded Imperial power and prestige across
The standard TIE fighter is fast but flawed. No shields, no hyperdrive, and no life-support system reduces its mass for greater maneuverability. Has a pair of laser cannons mounted at the base of the cockpit.
Technical drawing of a TIE/ln starfighter
The TIE/ln starfighter was a small, short-range fighter developed, manufactured, and mass produced by Sienar Fleet Systems (SFS). Developed by SFS company head
the basis for the TIE fighter could be traced back to
, along with several other outmoded models from the Old Republic.
Like their predecessors, TIE's employed two vertical wings similar in appearance to V-wing starfighters; however, the
bore even more similarities with its central cockpit pod, twin ion engines, and common weapons technology.
Twin Ion Engine "line edition" space superiority starfighter
The fighter's name is derived from its propulsion system, which was specifically designed to create a distinct noise so as to inspire fear in those who opposed the Empire.
These engines could expel charged particles along almost any vector, providing the TIE fighter with incredible maneuverability, and their lack of moving parts or high-temperature components made them easier to maintain: Imperial records indicated less than five percent of all TIE fighters lost were as a result of field attrition.
Fuel for the engines consisted of a radioactive gas kept in pressurized fuel tankage located on the underside of the cockpit.
A TIE fighter's twin ion engines, combined with
, provided thrust and boosters capable of quickly adjusting the ship's direction. The TIE/ln featured vertical takeoff and landing (VTOL) capabilities owing to repulsorlift cyclers in its wing struts—reducing its already small mass to negligible weight—and micropositioning thrusts from the twin ion engines. Furthermore, the lack of a
and resultant navigational systems alongside extended life support and fuel combined to cut down the TIE's total mass.
A Rebel T-65B X-wing starfighter in the sights of a TIE fighter's targeting computer
In order to reduce cost, mass and energy consumption while improving maneuverability, the TIE fighter lacked
plating which was proof against hand-held
(except in exposed areas such as the stabilizers
) but could be penetrated by direct hits from military-grade
, and micrometeor impacts. However the cockpit's spherical shape meant that glancing blows would be deflected away.
TIE fighters were equipped with sensor jamming capabilities and could be retrofitted with additional
The fighter's black "wings" were in fact an array of twelve
, framed by rigid quadanium steel foil braces, that featured a micro-crenulated solar absorption surface.
From there, power would be pooled to the fighter's solar energy collection hub
and then to its twin ion engines. Originally the wings also powered the fighter's armaments, but this was found to quickly drain the fighter of energy and negatively affected its maneuverability. These early fighters were later retrofitted with a dedicated generator to power the lasers, a feature that became standard on all
The wings were sturdy enough to double as landing gear, further reducing overall mass, however, TIE fighters were designed to be deployed and retrieved using special cycling racks. Standard on Star Destroyers and other Imperial facilities, each rack system had a maximum capacity of 72 fighters. Beyond allowing pilots and technicians to access the craft more easily, the system was also equipped with small
projectors to assist with landing operations.
One drawback to the wing design was that it did obscure the pilot's field of vision, yet Imperial authorities considered this an acceptable motivation for pilots to concentrate on the targets in front of them.
Due to its importance as a stabilizer, if part of the wing were to be removed to increase sight it would cost the fighter stability, which would then hamper the ship's ability to engage in dog fights.
The wings did provide some measure of additional protection for the cockpit, and the fighter's sensor array compensated for the blind spots by augmenting and expanding the pilot's visual range.
The TIE/ln was first and foremost designed for space combat, and while capable of operating in a planetary atmosphere it was at a distinct disadvantage versus other starfighters like the X-wing. The hexagonal wings made it harder to steer and more vulnerable to crosswinds. If it attempted to reverse its thrust too hard in order to decelerate, the fighter also risked causing severe structural damage to the wing spars and support pylons.
However, depending on the circumstances the TIE fighter could still give a good account for itself in atmospheric combat. When operating down in tight urban confines and an oxygen-rich atmosphere for example, a TIE fighter was equal to an X-wing in speed and maneuverability.
At higher altitudes it could also successfully engage in dogfights with X-wings at supersonic speeds.
The TIE fighter's primary armament was a pair of
. The green blaster bolt these weapons fired was the result of the more expensive
used by the Empire and aided pilots in identifying their shots. Mated to the cannons was an advanced
model—which was considered superior to the
As all combat craft were equipped with some form of
equipment, the targeting computer cut down on the amount of time needed to obtain a "target lock," although for best performance they required constant readjustment by the pilot.
While TIE fighters lacked any secondary weaponry as standard, they could be retrofitted to carry additional armaments such as
or replace their normal laser cannons with other models or
Its central cockpit was tightly fitted, incorporating flight controls, viewscreens, targeting systems, tracking equipment—including a
in case the vessel was stolen—and room for a
all in the central pod. Despite being designed for a single occupant, several other passengers could fit inside the central cockpit, although the fit would be extremely tight.
A pressurized seal allowed the cockpit to retain an atmosphere and minimal, perfunctory oxygen scrubbers to protect the equipment, but the lack of any
, kept within an armored compartment beneath the pilot's seat, was designed to survive any event which would otherwise reduce the TIE fighter to scattered debris to allow for later retrieval and analysis.
Flight controls were considered intuitive and easy to learn, in some cases allowing rebel novices to fly and operate them after having stolen them from Imperial airfields. TIEs were also outfitted with an
Equipped with an antigrav unit and automated safety system, the seat was designed to guide the pilot away from debris and prevent any serious injury such as spinal fractures by determining when to release restrains or deploy the parachute. It was also equipped with a locator beacon to aid in pilot recovery.
During the reign of the Empire, TIE fighters were favored for their versatility, if not for their durability. They were able to operate both in space as well as in planetary atmospheres, acting as fighters or scouts.
They were more than capable of enforcing Imperial law against unarmed or lightly defended civilian transports. TIE/ln pilots were not afforded the independence enjoyed by equivalent pilots of the Rebel Alliance, as
were preferred for tactical discussion among the Imperial Starfleet.
In Imperial doctrine, individual TIE fighters were used for scouting while a pair of fighters would be used to escort shuttles and other craft. A group of four TIE fighters, called a sentry group, was deployed to patrol the area around an Imperial ship or facility. A typical attack
consisted to 12 TIE fighters, and six squadrons together made up a full
, all TIE/ln starfighters possessed by the
were upgraded with advanced weaponry invented by
, allowing them to punch through an enemy fighter's shields as well as hull, destroying them in a single hit.
a TIE fighter swooped past before the vision shifted into a space battle between TIE fighters and
which was only one of the many battles the young Dooku watched unfold. Later,
attempted to ease Dooku's worries about the futures he foresaw, letting him know nothing in them was a certainty.
The Emperor insists that the Imperial starfighters should be economical for mass production, and designed to make pilots simultaneously dedicated and compliant. And above all, the Emperor wants our starfighters to incite fear.
―Grand Moff Tarkin, in a memorandum to Raith Sienar
Following the transformation of the Galactic Republic into the authoritarian Galactic Empire
Republic era weapons and equipment would continue to be utilized throughout the Imperial sphere. As time went by, the Republic's Eta-2
began to be phased out roughly five years after the
to create a line of single-pilot, short-range starfighters for the
. Tarkin mandated that the weaponized fighters should be extremely fast and maneuverable, energy efficient, and inexpensive to manufacture.
Building off the advancements in starfighter engineering seen during the
Raith Sienar personally designed the fighters, basing them off designs from the
-class V-wing starfighter, and the Eta-2
-class light interceptor. The result was a central spherical pod positioned between two hexogonal solar energy-collecting wings. To minimize power drain and maximize maneuverability, Sienar eschewed typically standard systems such as deflector shields and a hyperdrive. The
was created during the development process. After a series of test flights, the Empire approved Sienar's design, and executed an exclusive contract with Sienar for the production of TIE fighters.
TIE fighters began to roll off assembly lines, with the Imperial mechanic
working on the TIE line since the beginning of their deployment,
and were ready for deployment by the time of the
intended as a showcase of Imperial might, such as through the deployment of the Empire's new starfighters.
TIE fighters stationed at an Imperial airfield
The TIE fighter became a defining symbol of Imperial domination over its usage.
With TIE pilots instructed to ignore their own well-being in order to achieve their objectives, the fighters were extremely fragile and their pilots expendable. With the Imperial Navy's vast size and unchallenged reign over the galaxy, the use of swarm tactics and subsequent mass production and refreshment of the vessels barely put a dent into Imperial manpower and industrial capacity. The low cost of production also spurred the craft's use.
As a result, many features were sacrificed to facilitate mass production by Sienar Fleet Systems factories. Wilhuff Tarkin, an excellent pilot in his own right, was known to think very poorly of the TIE fighter due to its cramped cockpit and seemingly disposable nature.
Imperial fighters also acted as psychological deterrents to potential seditious activities, with their roaring engines inspiring fear in those who heard them, leading to Imperial commanders to order their pilots to purposely fly low over areas that needed reminding of Imperial might.
Waylin would meet TIE pilots over his career as he worked on the ships and was always impressed by their refusal to back down, figuring that the ship design's drawbacks built character.
As part of the five-year plan for the industrialization of the
, TIE fighters were produced on a number of
The Empire also gave some of its TIE fighters to loyalist companies to help secure its interests, leading to variants such as the
TIE fighters were deployed to put down the
and succeeded, with one TIE pilot in the engagement the former
. Adelhard would go onto rise through the Imperial ranks, reaching the position of
They're insanely quick. Maneuver like an angry wasp. And, oh yeah, they outnumber us ten to one.
While the Empire's rule was absolute for years,
rebels had begun to arise as early as a year into its reign
early rebellion against the Galactic Empire
fought Imperial forces, including TIE fighters, on Lothal
as the Alliance to Restore the Republic.
While TIE fighters could engage unarmed and slightly defended civilian transports, they faced a more formidable foe in the form of the Alliance's starfighters.
TIE fighters were stationed at a starfighter factory on the
. As the factory was attacked by forces of the
it engaged their fighters but was ultimately destroyed.
TIE Fighters tried and failed to defend the first Death Star at the Battle of Yavin
and Navy pilots—referred to as ground-hogs and vac-heads respectively—was rescinded, and the Imperial Military was to undergo a mass reorganization.
use the stolen TIE fighters to patrol as the disguise for sign of Rebels, even no sign of the Empire.
Over time, a variety of other models arose from the TIE line, including notable vessels such as the
TIE/sk x1 experimental air superiority fighter
, partly in direct response to faster and newer vessels manufactured by the Rebel Alliance. A variety of sub-models of the
had arisen throughout Imperial history, with Sienar factories experimenting with localized improvements, producing advanced models suited to flying in local conditions and incorporating secret technological breakthroughs. Ships such as the
, however its extreme cost would later relegate its successor, the
, to be flown only by elite pilots and members of the Imperial hierarchy such as Lord Vader.
, TIE/IN Interceptors made up 20% of the Empire's starfighter fleet.
Following the Battle of Endor, Imperial supply shortages would hinder the production and further development of TIE/ln starfighters, forcing
to make do with an inadequate number of ships and inexperienced pilots.
Production data was classified, but according to numerous estimates, Sienar manufactured a minimum of approximately 4.6 million Imperial TIE fighters for
, other Imperial Naval vessels, and Imperial
and defense stations. Most estimates maintain that more Imperial TIE fighters were operational at the same time than any other starfighter in history.
The First Order Special Forces TIE/sf was the evolution of the TIE/ln fighter.
The legacy of the TIE fighter was not forgotten on the galactic stage, with Sienar Fleet System's successor,
, producing the latest-generation TIE fighters utilized by the Empire's successor state, the
were a direct continuance of the imprint the TIE fighter had on galactic citizenry, and featured advanced weapons systems and a two-seated arrangement for use by the Order's
, himself former indentured servant of the Empire,
Future historians would argue that flaws inherent in the TIE fighter design were allowed to remain, if only to increase the Empire's dependency on Sienar Fleet Systems for continued production of the craft, along with increased dependency on
TIE fighter models being constructed for
's (ILM) Colin Cantwell created the concept model that established the TIE fighter's ball-cockpit and hexagonal-panels design for
created the distinctive TIE fighter sound effect by combining an elephant call with a car driving on wet pavement.
were relatively white, but were originally meant to have a maroon hull. One of the benefits of a slightly reddish color would have been that the fighter models would not have been as prone to "blue spill" as gray models were during filming against a blue screen. However, film composition tests revealed that the maroon ships blended too quickly into the mostly black star field when moving away from the camera, so a light gray was used instead.
Combat scenes between TIE fighters and the
dogfight footage; editors used World War II air combat clips as placeholders while Industrial Light & Magic completed the movie's special effects.
TIE/ln fighters are one of two starships available to Imperial players in
, the other being the TIE/IN interceptor. Compared to the X-wings and
, TIE fighters lack shields but instead possess good maneuverability and speed. However, their large wing panels make them very easy to hit in dogfights, giving Rebel fighters a slight advantage in ship-to-ship engagements.
, which featured a transparisteel window that was noticeably smaller than those seen in
stated that TIE fighters built on Lothal had shorter wings, as explanation for stylistic choices made for the TIE/ln's design in the animated series
Rebels Recon: Inside "Always Two There Are"
said that there is no difference. Since then,
. Their animation model in the film featured noticeably smaller transparisteel windows
Star Wars: Rogue One: The Ultimate Visual Guide
by Pablo Hidalgo was the first reference book to identify the TIE fighter as the TIE/ln space superiority starfighter. It also defined the "ln" within the starfighter's name as standing for "line edition."
Solo: A Star Wars Story: Expanded Edition
(Indirectly mentioned only; in the opening crawl)
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
Choose Your Destiny: A Han & Chewie Adventure
Special Report: Lothal Jobless Rates Hit All-time Low
Special Report: Famed Imperial Pilot Moves to Lothal
Servants of the Empire: Edge of the Galaxy
The Secret Jedi: The Adventures of Kanan Jarrus: Rebel Leader
Servants of the Empire: Imperial Justice
Servants of the Empire: The Secret Academy
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
Stormtroopers vs. Rebels – Soldiers of the Galactic Empire
A New Hope: The Princess, the Scoundrel, and the Farm Boy
The Adventures of Luke Skywalker, Jedi Knight
Star Wars: The Original Trilogy – A Graphic Novel
(Appears in final page illustration only)
Han Solo – Taking Flight for his Friends
Luke vs. the Death Star - X-wing Assault
Smuggler's Run: A Han Solo & Chewbacca Adventure
Galactic Adventures Storybook Collection
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
The Weapon of a Jedi: A Luke Skywalker Adventure
Star Wars Adventures: The Weapon of a Jedi
Choose Your Destiny: A Luke & Leia Adventure
The Empire Strikes Back: So You Want to Be a Jedi?
Tales of Villainy: Invasion of Echo Base
Han Solo vs. the Space Slug - The Escape Artist
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Amara Kel's Rules for TIE Pilot Survival (Probably)
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Moving Target: A Princess Leia Adventure
Return of the Jedi: Beware the Power of the Dark Side!
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
Victory's Price: An Alphabet Squadron Novel
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 1
Part Eight: The Jedi, the Witch, and the Warlord
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
Tales from a Galaxy Far, Far Away: Aliens: Volume I
Galactic Tales: The Crimson Corsair and the Sinister Secret of the Binary Star
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Expanded Edition
Tales from Wild Space: The Flat Mountain of Yavin
Tales from Wild Space: Look Before You Leap
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
Rogue One: Recon A Star Wars 360 Experience
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
Star Wars Rebels Imperial Propaganda Posters
WonderCon 2014 - Exclusive Clip | Star Wars Rebels
Meet the Inquisitor, the Empire's Jedi Hunter | Star Wars Rebels
Ultimate Sticker Collection: Star Wars Rebels
We're Even - Fighter Flight SDCC 2014 Exclusive Clip | Star Wars Rebels
Star Wars Rebels Extended Preview (Official)
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle of Yavin
NYCC 2013: Meet the Inquisitor, the New Face of Evil in
Highlights of the Saga: Peril in the Asteroid Field
Star Wars Rebels: Beware the Inquisitor!
Databank A-Z: Hydroid Medusas–Imperial Academies
Databank A-Z: E-11 Blaster–Cornelius Evazan
(First identified as TIE/LN starfighter)
Starship Fact File: Imperial Star Destroyer
Starship Fact File: Star Destroyer Deployment
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Highlights of the Saga: The Second Death Star
Databank A-Z: Kyber Crystals–Laser Cannons
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
Databank A-Z: Davish Krail–Kuat Drive Yards
Star Wars: TIE Fighter Deluxe Book and Model Set
Highlights of the Saga: Joining Phoenix Squadron
Star Wars: X-Wing Deluxe Book and Model Set
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
Art of Coloring: Rogue One: A Star Wars Story
Star Wars: Rogue One: The Ultimate Visual Guide
(First identified as TIE/ln space superiority starfighter)
Building the Galaxy: Designing R2-D2, Part 1
Building the Galaxy: Designing R2-D2, Part 2
Building the Galaxy: Motion Control Filming
Building the Galaxy: Filming R2-D2, Part 1
Building the Galaxy: Filming R2-D2, Part 2
Building the Galaxy: Filming R2-D2, Part 3
Building the Galaxy: The Weapon of a Jedi
Highlights of the Saga: Leaving Skystrike
Building the Galaxy: Visual Effects, Part 1
Star Wars: Geektionary: The Galaxy from A - Z
Star Wars: A-wing Deluxe Book and 3D Wood Model
Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles
Solo: A Star Wars Story The Official Guide
Iden Versio — Inferno Leader — TIE/ln Fighter
"Night Beast" — Obsidian Two — TIE/ln Fighter
Obsidian Squadron Pilot — TIE/ln Fighter
Valen Rudor — Braggadocious Baron — TIE/ln Fighter
Creating a Starship Fleet: Ralph McQuarrie — The Man Who Drew
Starfighter Aces: Luke Skywalker — Savior of the Rebel Alliance
Solo: A Star Wars Story: Tales from Vandor
Del Meeko — Inferno Three — TIE/ln Fighter
Gideon Hask — Inferno Two — TIE/ln Fighter
"Howlrunner" — Obsidian Leader — TIE/LN Fighter
"Mauler" Mithel — Black Two — TIE/ln Fighter
"Scourge" Skutu — Seasoned Veteran — TIE/ln Fighter
Seyn Marana — Inferno Four — TIE/ln Fighter
Tempest Squadron Pilot — TIE Advanced x1
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Star Wars: Scum and Villainy: Case Files on the Galaxy's Most Notorious
Captain Seevor — Modified TIE/ln Fighter
Foreman Proach — Modified TIE/ln Fighter
Mining Guild Sentry — Modified TIE/ln Fighter
Mining Guild Surveyor — Modified TIE/ln Fighter
Overseer Yushyn — Modified TIE/ln Fighter
Star Wars Galaxy of Adventures Fun Facts
(as TIE/in space superiority starfighter)
Rebel Starfighters Owners' Workshop Manual
Leia Organa — Modified YT-1300 Light Freighter
(First identified as TIE/ln fighter and TIE/ln)
Every Ship in the Star Wars Sequel Trilogy
Star Wars Complete Vehicles, New Edition
The Battle of Hoth and the Second Death Star
Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy
Obi-Wan Kenobi | Official Trailer | Disney+
SWCA 2022: 6 Things We Learned From the Lucasfilm Publishing Fiction Panel
The Story of the Ronin Continues and More from Marvel's September 2022
Saga Chronicles: Skywalker Sound's Danielle Dupre and Jon Borland on Their
Andor | Official Trailer | Disney+ (2:25)
Trailer Goes Big on Rebel Action, and Updated Premiere Details Revealed
Andor | Official Trailer | Disney+ (1:30)
Star Wars Outlaws: World Premiere Trailer
Star Wars Outlaws: Official Gameplay Walkthrough | Ubisoft Forward
Star Wars Outlaws: Meet Kay Vess' Actor | Ubisoft Forward
Ubisoft Forward: Official Livestream – June 2023 | #UbiForward
Star Wars Outlaws: Behind The Scenes - Crafting a Galaxy of Opportunity
SDCC 2023: Take a Peek Behind the Scenes of
Star Wars: Dawn of Rebellion: The Visual Guide
Star Wars Outlaws: Official Story Trailer
Star Wars Outlaws: Official Story Trailer
Star Wars Outlaws: Story Trailer Developer Breakdown
: Creative Director Julian Gerighty Breaks Down the New Story Trailer
Star Wars Outlaws: Official Teaser | Summer Game Fest 2024
Star Wars Outlaws: Official Game Overview Trailer | Ubisoft Forward
' Julian Gerighty Talks Kay Vess' Journey: "This Is a Survival Story"
Star Wars Outlaws: Behind The Scenes – Navigating the Underworld
Star Wars Outlaws: Official PC Gameplay Trailer
Star Wars Outlaws: Building An Open World
Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy
Star Wars Outlaws: Title Update 1.4 Overview
Star Wars Outlaws Is Now Available On Nintendo Switch 2
Star Wars Outlaws: Nintendo Switch™ 2 Launch Trailer
Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles
LEGO Star Wars Visual Dictionary Updated Edition
Strap in Starfighter, Star Wars is Taking Over in Fortnite: GALACTIC BATTLE!
Star Wars Rebels: Visual Guide: Epic Battles
Star Wars: Rogue One: The Ultimate Visual Guide
Star Wars: TIE Fighter Deluxe Book and Model Set
Servants of the Empire: Edge of the Galaxy
Starship Fact File: TIE Advanced x1 Prototype
Star Wars Complete Vehicles, New Edition
Victory's Price: An Alphabet Squadron Novel
#2.14: Inside "The Call" | Star Wars Rebels
Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: Incredible Cross-Sections
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
Empire of Dreams: The Story of the Star Wars Trilogy
"Add that to Lothal TIE fighters, B-wing history and a Hego Demask reference that shouldn't be in there..."
Every Starfighter in Star Wars Explained By Lucasfilm
STAR WARS™ Micro Galaxy Squadron Light Armor Class Collection (Series 6)