Parts of this article are no longer up to date. This article needs updating from multiple sources. Click the dropdown below to see the full list.
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Star Wars: Build the Millennium Falcon 43
Star Wars: Scum and Villainy: Case Files on the Galaxy's Most Notorious
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
Star Wars Bestiary, Vol. 1: Creatures of the Galaxy
Please update the article to include missing information, and remove this template when finished.
Let him have it. It's not wise to upset a Wookiee.
But sir, nobody worries about upsetting a droid.
That's 'cause a droid don't pull people's arms out of their sockets when they lose. Wookiees are known to do that.
I see your point, sir. I suggest a new strategy, Artoo. Let the Wookiee win.
. A notable member of this species was the warrior
. They were quite strong, and were known to rip people's arms out of their sockets when provoked. Though being from a temperate planet known for its
, Wookiees were perfectly comfortable on icy worlds like
, not requiring any additional protective
Gungi, a Wookiee youngling in the Jedi Order
, who could grow to a height of nearly three
They were covered from head to toe in a thick, shaggy coat of
and male. The latter grew long beards in adult life.
while the average female weighed 100 kilograms.
Wookiees were big eaters, with the average adult requiring 3,500-6,000 calories a
, and spices. They preferred their spices to be hot.
, it provided them with enough nutrition to survive.
" was a sickness that affected Wookiees. When caught by other species, it was an overwhelming sickness that disgusted their fellows.
The literary collective term for Wookiees was a grove of Wookiees.
Many of their kind were known to understand Galactic Basic but were unable to speak it due to their species' vocal structure.
Wookiees had extendable claws which they used for climbing; using them for anything else violated the
Despite their fearsome appearance and volatile temperament, Wookiees were regarded as intelligent, sophisticated, loyal and trusting. When angered, Wookiees were known to descend into a berserker rage.
and they appeared not to age over a span of fifty
Their lifespans dramatically decreased due to the harsh working conditions in the
During their prime growing years, Wookiees were often hungry, forcing them to eat whenever they could.
—the only distinction being her white fur.
, but they were physically unable to speak them
due to their strange vocal chords that prevented them from speaking verbal languages.
To those who had not learned to understand
it appeared they spoke in a series of growls and purrs. Although a rare phenomenon,
Wookiees were possible, and some joined the ranks of the
, becoming a source of great pride for their people.
Wookiee warriors defended their homeworld against Separatist invaders.
Go, I will. Good relations with the Wookiees, I have.
planet of Kashyyyk. In the ancient past, they invented and crafted weapons that fired poisoned darts and arrows.
the Wookiees remained fiercely loyal to the
Towards the end of the conflict, Wookiee forces also defended their
Kashyyyk, l-look, things are really bad down there. The - the Empire's muscling in on those Wookiees big time.
―Greez Dritus talking about the Empire's exploitation of Wookiees
At the end of the Clone Wars, numerous Wookiees were slaughtered by the
they allied with in the ensuing chaos of the anti-Jedi
by the Empire. The softening and repeal of anti-
laws ultimately led to the Empire classifying the Wookiees as non-sentient.
The Empire enslaved the Wookiees not because they were a meaningful threat to the Empire but because their massive, robust physiology allowed them to work long and hard in extreme conditions.
A pair of Wookiees rush into battle wielding
As a result, many Wookiees were enslaved and made to build much of the Imperial war machine,
Numerous Wookiees were bred for use in medical experimentation, and some were used as playthings for
, Imperial governor of Kashyyyk, who occasionally hunted live Wookiees for sport.
To keep them in line, all of the Wookiees on Kashyyyk were fitted with
that caused them great pain if activated. The Empire also quickly learned the most efficient way of preventing any wide-scale uprisings was by threatening clan and family members, particularly the younglings. Normally, a Wookiee would quite willingly rip a stormtrooper limb from limb regardless of their own safety, but could not bear to see other Wookiees subjected to the agony instead.
Despite these grave circumstances for their race, the Wookiees nonetheless found ways to help others. In the early days of the Empire, the Outer Rim planet of
, was brutally sacked and devastated by the Empire for daring to question the new regime. Unable to stand by and watch, many Wookiees went to Lasan and fought the Empire with weapons forged from the
trees of their homeworld, in many cases giving their own lives to save the Lasats. Because of their actions, a few Lasats (including
) were able to escape the genocide and survive in the wider galaxy.
Surviving Jedi Cal Kestis helped the Partisans free Wookiees from an Imperial refinery.
, Wookiees who were being held prisoner by the Empire and forced to work at an Imperial refinery in Kashyyyk, were freed by the
, who joined them during the attack on the refinery. Kestis went to Kashyyyk in search of
, a Wookiee chieftain he believed might have information that could be useful in his
. Kestis left the world while the Partisans searched for Tarfful and returned when he was informed they had found him. Tarfful told Kestis to search the top of the
Enslaved Wookiees forced to work in the spice mines of Kessel
discovered evidence that the Empire was transporting enslaved Wookiees after responding to a distress transmission from the troop transport
by a task force consisting of the frigate
, where more Wookiee slaves were held. Thrawn commanded the operation to reinforce Baklek Base and forced the insurgents to surrender. When Vanto objected to slavery, Thrawn tried to rationalize the Empire's enslavement of Wookiees.
About fourteen years after the establishment of the Empire,
on Kashyyyk. Civilian travel to the planet was restricted and access was granted only for official government business.
Would somebody get this big walking carpet out of my way?
Wookiees were known for their tenacity in battle.
, the Wookiee homeworld had become an Imperial remnant known as
led by Grand Moff Tolruck. Kashyyyk was later
and Chewbacca, the former Imperial loyalty officer
, used a hyperspace transceiver to neutralize Tolruck's inhibitor chips. This enabled the Wookiees to rise up en-masse against the Imperial occupiers and take their well-earned revenge, with Grand Moff Tolruck himself being killed by his personal slave,
. The Imperial forces attempted to orbital bombard Kashyyyk but were defeated by a New Republic fleet led by
Wookiee and New Republic forces then conducted mopping-up operations against the remaining Imperial holdouts on Kashyyyk. During one of these skirmishes, Chewbacca reunited with his son,
, who had escaped from a slave labor camp run by
Black Krrsantan, a Wookiee bounty hunter active during the New Republic era
, Kashyyyk's forests including the Black Forest grew back. Many Wookiees including Chewbacca and Chief
. Due to his shadowy appearance, he earned the nickname the "Long Man." Chewbacca agreed to help
in return recovering the limbs of the murdered Wookiees for funeral rites.
A Wookiee! Rare you are to the Jedi. Proud, your people must be.
Wookiee buildings blended with their environment.
The name for their species was known to translate
Living in a great harmony with the nature of Kashyyyk,
the Wookiees placed great value upon the wroshyr trees of their home planet; they considered the mighty trees the true owners of the land, themselves merely coexisting with them, and would consult them before every battle by bowing their heads against their wood to listen to their wisdom.
Wookiees were expert craftsmen who blended off-world technology like
broke Wookiee tradition due to its automatic cocking system. Wookiees believed that seeing a
brought good luck, and Wookiees often kept them as pets.
who turned their talents against the Wookiees and hunted them.
The highest way a Wookiee could compliment someone was to groom them.
In Wookiee society, loyalty and courage were valued as sacrosanct tenets.
It was typical for Wookiees to value honor and friendship above all else.
It was considerably rare to find Wookiees with criminal tendencies.
When male Wookiees turned 12 years old, they would undergo initiation rituals to enter adulthood. Wookiees spoke three
" because Wookiees viewed their carving skills as a survival skill and not a talent.
Chewbacca and Han Solo were famous smugglers-turned-Rebel heroes.
Notable Wookiees included Chewbacca, the
(who fought alongside Master Yoda during the Battle of Kashyyyk),
the warrior Wullffwarro, and his son Kitwarr.
Force-sensitive Wookiees included the Jedi Master Arkoff,
, and Jedi Padawan Burryaga Agaburry, all of whom lived in the
Leia Organa ever met was a guest at one of
's state dinners, with the Wookiee leaving an impression on the young Leia.
played an important role in turning the tide of the
He later took part in Han Solo and Chewbacca's campaign to liberate Kashyyyk.
, Leia Organa once saw two Wookiee commuters in front of her on an
A Wookiee later appeared through Chewbacca in the first
Much to Learn You Still Have: 8 Things You Might Not Know About Wookiees
around Kashyyyk and the construction would be done by Wookiee laborers,
while Kashyyyk and Wookiees other than Chewbacca were never present.
The Wookiees also appeared in the non-canon
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
The High Republic: The Great Jedi Rescue
Star Wars: Young Jedi Adventures—The Training Sessions
The High Republic Adventures: Galactic Bake-Off Spectacular
The High Republic Adventures Annual 2021
The High Republic: The Battle for Starlight
The High Republic – Shadows of Starlight
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
The High Republic – Shadows of Starlight
The High Republic: The Edge of Balance: Precedent
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
The High Republic: Tales of Light and Life
Tales from the Occlusion Zone: No Big Deal
The High Republic: Temptation of the Force
The High Republic: The Edge of Balance: Premonition
Forces of Destiny: Daring Adventures: Volume 2
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
The Clone Wars: Stories of Light and Dark
Solo: A Star Wars Story: Expanded Edition
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Choose Your Destiny: A Han & Chewie Adventure
Report: Wookiee Revolt Quelled on Kashyyyk
The Secret Jedi: The Adventures of Kanan Jarrus: Rebel Leader
The Mighty Chewbacca in the Forest of Fear!
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
Star Wars Adventures: Tales from Vader's Castle
A New Hope: The Princess, the Scoundrel, and the Farm Boy
The Adventures of Luke Skywalker, Jedi Knight
Star Wars: The Original Trilogy – A Graphic Novel
(Appears in final page illustration only)
Chewie vs. Holochess - Let the Wookiee Win
Han Solo – Taking Flight for his Friends
Luke vs. the Death Star - X-wing Assault
Smuggler's Run: A Han Solo & Chewbacca Adventure
Galactic Adventures Storybook Collection
The Princess and the Bog, A Twin Tale, Part 1
Galactic Adventures Storybook Collection
The Weapon of a Jedi: A Luke Skywalker Adventure
The Empire Strikes Back: So You Want to Be a Jedi?
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Tales of Villainy: Invasion of Echo Base
Han Solo vs. the Space Slug - The Escape Artist
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Moving Target: A Princess Leia Adventure
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Return of the Jedi: Beware the Power of the Dark Side!
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Jedi
Star Wars Insider: The Fiction Collection Volume 2
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Chapter 6: From the Desert Comes a Stranger
Tales from a Galaxy Far, Far Away: Aliens: Volume I
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: A Junior Novel
Choose Your Destiny: A Maz's Castle Mission
Join the Resistance: Attack on Starkiller Base
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: A Junior Novel
Flight of the Falcon, Part 2: The Planet of Misfit Droids
Flight of the Falcon, Part 4: Lady and the Tramp
Flight of the Falcon, Part 5: Grand Theft Falcon
Star Wars Adventures: Flight of the Falcon
Black Spire: Return to a Shattered Planet
Tales from Wild Space: Adventures in Wookiee-Sitting
Tales from Wild Space: Mattis Makes a Stand
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: A Junior Novel
Star Wars Epic Yarns: The Empire Strikes Back
Star Wars Epic Yarns: Return of the Jedi
William Shakespeare's Tragedy of the Sith's Revenge: Star Wars Part the Third
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures
William Shakespeare's Jedi the Last: Star Wars Part the Eighth
From Trenches to Wrenches: The Roger Story
"Wookiee Hunt" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
Ultimate Sticker Collection: Star Wars Rebels
Star Wars Rebels Extended Trailer (Official)
Helmets: Boba Fett — Notorious Bounty Hunter
Highlights of the Saga: The Capture of Han Solo
The Rebel Bruiser: Steve Blum is Zeb Orrelios
Highlights of the Saga: Sabotage Mission
The Untold Clone Wars Panel | Star Wars Celebration Anaheim
Weapons & Uniforms: Jabba's Skiff Guards
Highlights of the Saga: Assault on Endor
(First identified as the People of the Trees)
Highlights of the Saga: Battle of Kashyyyk
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Starship Fact File: VCX-100 Freighter — The
Guide to the Galaxy: Kashyyyk's Fight for Freedom
Databank A-Z: Davish Krail–Kuat Drive Yards
Highlights of the Saga: Alderaan Survives!
Databank A-Z: Petranaki Arena–Proton Torpedoes
Weapons & Uniforms: Republic Ground Vehicles
Databank A-Z: Admiral Wiskovis–The Works
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia: Updated and Expanded
Highlights of the Saga: Infiltrating Starkiller Base
Highlights of the Saga: Striking at the New Republic
Weapons & Uniforms: Mos Eisley Spaceport Cantina
Highlights of the Saga: Someone to Watch Over Me
Much to Learn You Still Have: 8 Things You Might Not Know About Wookiees
Weapons & Uniforms: D'Qar Resistance Base Personnel
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
Weapons & Uniforms: Heroes of the Resistance
Weapons & Uniforms: Denizens of Maz Kanata's Castle
Star Wars: Rogue One: The Ultimate Visual Guide
Weapons & Uniforms: The Adventures of Nien Nunb
Droid Directory: 3PO-series Protocol Droids, Part 1
Droid Directory: 2-1B-series Medical Droids, Part 1
Building the Galaxy: Filming R2-D2, Part 3
Databank A-Z: Tractor Beams–Tri-Fighters
Star Wars Super Graphic: A Visual Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
Highlights of the Saga: The Battle for Jedha
Forces of Destiny: Tales of Hope & Courage
Star Wars: Geektionary: The Galaxy from A - Z
Star Wars: The Last Jedi Activity Book with Stickers
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Incredible Cross-Sections
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: The Last Jedi: Ultimate Sticker Collection
Behind the Cameras: Evolution of Stormtroopers
Star Wars Encyclopedia of Starfighters and Other Vehicles
The Last Jedi: Rose Tico: Resistance Fighter
Solo: A Star Wars Story The Official Guide
Solo: A Star Wars Story: Tales from Vandor
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Star Wars: Scum and Villainy: Case Files on the Galaxy's Most Notorious
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia, New Edition
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Galactic Guide
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
Every Ship in the Star Wars Sequel Trilogy
The Battle of Hoth and the Second Death Star
The Final Order and the Battle of Exegol
New High Republic Comic Revealed, Lightsabers from the Prime of the Jedi, and More!
"War-Mantle" Episode Guide - The Bad Batch
Tobias Beckett and Other Characters of the Underworld
Star Wars: Battles that Changed the Galaxy
Under the Helmet: The Legacy of Boba Fett
Cargo Hold: "Chapter 2: The Tribes of Tatooine"
: 5 Highlights from "Chapter 2: The Tribes of Tatooine"
Cargo Hold: "Chapter 3: The Streets of Mos Espa"
: 5 Highlights from "Chapter 3: The Streets of Mos Espa"
Cargo Hold: "Chapter 4: The Gathering Storm"
: 5 Highlights from "Chapter 4: The Gathering Storm"
Big Empire | The Book of Boba Fett | Disney+
Stranger | The Book of Boba Fett | Disney+
Cargo Hold: "Chapter 7: In the Name of Honor"
Learn to Care for Creatures and Aliens in
Marvel Star Wars Comics Revealed, New Galactic Pals, and More!
Disney Gallery: The Book of Boba Fett | Disney+
A Series of Firsts | Obi-Wan Kenobi | Disney+
SWCA 2022: 7 Things We Learned from the Lucasfilm Publishing Behind the Page Panel
Star Wars: The Bad Batch | Season 2 Teaser Trailer | Disney+
SWCA 2022: 8 Things We Learned from the Marvel
The Story of the Ronin Continues and More from Marvel's September 2022
Tales of the Jedi Poster Art, Mon Mothma Arrives in Andor, and More!
Head Back to the Youngling Care Space Station with New
Star Wars: The Secrets of the Bounty Hunters
Forces of Nature: The Wild Spaces and Wilder Creatures of the
Dawn Dininger: Full Time Fabricator, Part Time Rodian
Star Wars: The High Republic: Chronicles of the Jedi
Star Wars: Dawn of Rebellion: The Visual Guide
Everyone Needs a Wookiee Hug on Valentine's Day
Return of the Jedi Masters Avar Kriss and Elzar Mann in
Authors on Authors: Tessa Gratton and Justina Ireland
Feast Your Eyes Upon the Galactic Treats Coming to Season of the Force at Disneyland Park - Exclusive
Release Date, Cinematic Trailer Revealed
Star Wars: Hunters Official Launch Trailer
Creature Shop: Meet Bazil, the Tynnan Tracker - First Details
Explained | Highlights from Episode 4 "Day"
Star Wars: The Rise and Fall of the Galactic Empire
Explained | Highlights from Episode 7 "Choice"
's Stunt Sequences and Martial Arts Action
The Acolyte | Finale Watch Party | Disney+
Lightsabers & Magic: Visual Effects Supervisor Julian Foddy on
25 Things You Probably Didn't Know About the Making of
' Dee Bradley Baker on Creating a Voice for Nubs
Behind the Bricks: Our Favorite Easter Eggs from
Reads Picks For Every Type of Reader in Your Life
News and Reveals from New York Comic-Con
Star Wars Bestiary, Vol. 1: Creatures of the Galaxy
Star Wars: The High Republic: The Lightsaber Collection
Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy
Wookiee Life Day Bucket | Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge at Disneyland Resort
Celebrate Life Day | Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge at Disneyland Resort
Wookiee Basketball, Kid Han Solo, and a Kenobi Dummy: 20 Fun Facts about
Star Wars: The Acolyte: The Visual Guide
THE YOUNGLINGS ARE BACK IN ACTION IN "STAR WARS: YOUNG JEDI ADVENTURES—THE TRAINING SESSIONS"
SDCC 2025: Highlights from the Lucasfilm Publishing Panel
The Art of Star Wars: The High Republic: Volume II
Video Games There's a Galaxy of Connection
Chewbacca and Other Creature Department Creations from
LEGO Star Wars: Choose Your Side: Doodle Activity Book
LEGO Star Wars: Build Your Own Adventure
LEGO Star Wars Summer Vacation | Official Trailer | Disney+
LEGO Star Wars Summer Vacation: A Vacation Adventure Clip
VISIONS FILMMAKER FOCUS: THE DUEL: PAYBACK
Lessons with Rey on Life Day! 🎄❄️🍖| LEGO Star Wars: Holiday Special | @StarWarsKids
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Creature Shop: Meet Bazil, the Tynnan Tracker - First Details
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Star Wars: The Force Awakens: A Junior Novel
Star Wars Propaganda: A History of Persuasive Art in the Galaxy
Report: Wookiee Revolt Quelled on Kashyyyk
Forces of Nature: The Wild Spaces and Wilder Creatures of the
Much to Learn You Still Have: 8 Things You Might Not Know About Wookiees
LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures